Christian Astrology 
By 


William Lilly -- 1647 


Volume Two 


CHRISTIAN 
ASTROLOGY 


MODESTLY 
TREATED OF IN THREE BOOKS 
THE FIRST CONTAINING THE USE OF AN EPHEMERIS, 
the erecting of a scheam of Heaven; nature of 
the twelve Signs of the Zodiack, of the 
Planets; with a most easie Introduction 
To the whole Art of Astrology. 


THE SECOND, BY A MOST METHODICAL WAY INSTRUCTETH 
the Student how to Judge or Resolve all manner of Questions contingent 
unto Man, viz. of Health, Sickness, Riches, Marriage, Preferment, Journies, &c. 
Severall Questions inferred and Judged. 


THE THIRD, CONTAINS AN EXACT MEOTH, WHEREBY TO 
Judge upon Nativities; severall ways how to rectifie them; 
How to judge the generall fate of the Native by the twelve Houses 
of Heaven, according to the naturall influence of the STARS: 
How his particular and Annuall Accidents, by the Art of Direction, and its exact measure of Time 
by Profections, Revolutions, Transits. 
A Nativity judged by the Method preceding. 


The Second Edition Corrected, and Amended. 


By WILLIAM LILLY Student of Astrology. 


Omne meum nil meum. Nihil dictum, quod non dictum prius 


LONDON 
Printed by John Macock 1659 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


THE RESOLUTION 
of all manner of QUESTIONS 
and DEMANDS. 


Chap. XXII. 
Questions Concerning the First House. 


If the Querent is likely to live long yea or not. 


Many men and women have not the time of their Nativities, or know how to procure them, either 
their Parents being dead, or no rememberance being left thereof; and yet for divers weighty 
considerations they are desirous to know by a question of Astrology, whether they shall live long 
or not?, whether any sicknesse is neer them? , what part of their Life is like to be most happy? 
together with many other such Queries people doe demand incident to this house. 


Signs of Health or Long Life. 


[SIGNES OF HEALTH.] 
In the Question you must consider if the Sign ascending, the Lord thereof, and the Moon be free 
from misfortune, viz. if the Lord of the Ascendant be free from Combustion of the Sun, from the 


129 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


The Resolution Of 


Square, Opposition or Conjunction of the Lord of the 8th, 12th, 6th or 4th House, if he be Direct, 
in Essentiall Dignity, Swift in Motion, or Angular, especially in the Ist house, (for in this 
question he is best placed therein) or 10th, or else in the 11th, or 9th House, and in a good aspect 
with Jupiter or Venus, or the Sun, or in the Termes of Jupiter and Venus, it’s an argument of 
Health and long life to the Querent, for the Lord of the Ascendant, or Ascendant it selfe 
unfortunate or Moon in bad houses afflicted, show mischiefe at hand; the aforesaid Significators 
tree, argue the contrary: for as you consider the Lord of the Ascendant, so the Ascendant is to be 
considered, and what aspect is cast unto it, viz. good or evil, and by what Planet or Planets, and 
of what house or houses they are Lords of. 


[SIGNES CONTRARY, VIZ. OF SICKNESSE, DEATH, &C. MISFORTUNE. ] 

It’s generally received, that if the Lord of the Ascendant be under the Sunbeams, or going to 
Combustion, which is worse then when he is departing, or the Moon cadent and unfortunated by 
any of those Planets who have dominion in the 8th or 6th, and either the South Node, Saturn or 
Mars in the Ascendant or 7th House, peregrine or in detriments, or retrograde, or if there be in 
the degree ascending, or in that degree of the Signe wherein the Lord of the Ascendant is, or with 
the Moon, or with that Planet who afflicts any of those; I say, any Fixed Starre of violent 
influence or nature of the Planet afflicting, or nature of the Lord of the 8th or 6th House, then 
you may judge the Querent is not long lived, but neer some danger, or shall undergoe some 
misfortune in one kind or other, according to the quality of the Significator and Signification of 
that or those houses they are Lords of. 


The Time When Any of These ACCIDENTS Shall Happen. 


You must see if the Lord of the Ascendant be going to Combustion, or to Opposition or 
Conjunction of the Lord of the 8th or 4th, how many degrees he is distant from the Sun, or Lord 
of the 8th or 4th, and in what Signe either of them are in; if the space betwixt them be eight 
degrees, and in a common Signe, it denotes so many moneths; if in a fixed signe, so many yeers; 
if in a moveable, so many weeks: this is onely for example, and in 


130 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


generall; for the measure of time must be limited according to the other Significators concurring 
in judgment herein.. 


Secondly, having considered the Lord of the Ascendant, see how many degrees the Moon is also 
distant from any Infortune, or from the Lords of the 6th or 8th, and in what Signe or Signes, their 
Nature, Quality and House wherein they are posited.. 


Thirdly, consider if there be an Infortune in the Ascendant, how many degrees the Cusp of the 
house wants of that degree the unfortunate Planet is in, or if the unfortunating Planet be in the 
7th, how many degrees the Ascendant wants of his true Opposition, and compute the time of 
Death, Sicknesses or Misfortune according to the dimension of degrees in Signes moveable, 
common, or fixed.. 


If you find the Lord of the Ascendant afflicted most of all by the Lord of the 6th, and in the 6th, 
or if the Lord of the Ascendant comes to Combustion in the 6th, you may judge the Querent will 
have very many and tedious sicknesses, which will scarce leave him till his death; and the more 
certain your judgment will be, if the Lord of the Ascendant, and the Lord of the 8th and the 
Moon be all placed in the 6th. 


If you find the Lord of the Ascendant, the Signe ascending, or Moon most principally impedited 
or unfortunated by the Lord of the 8th, or that Planet who afflicts your Significators out of the 
8th, then you may judge that the sicknesse with which he is now afflicted, or is shortly to be 
troubled withall, will end him, and that his death is approaching or that death is threatened.. 


But if you can find that the Lord of the Ascendant, or Signe of the Ascendant, or the Moon are 
chiefly afficted by the Lords of some other houses, you shall judge his misfortune from the 
nature of the house or houses whereof the Planet or Planets afflicting are Lords; and the first 
original thereof, or discovery, shall be signified from something, Man or Woman, &c. belonging 
to that house wherein you find the Planet afflicting posited, and thereby you shall judge a 
misfortune and not death: The Fixed Starres I mentioned, being of the nature of Mars, show 
sudden distempers of 


131 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


The Resolution of 


body, or Feavers, Murders, Quarrels &c. of the nature of Saturn, quartan Agues, Poverty, casuall 
hurts by fals &c..., of the nature of Mercury, they declare Consumptions,Madness, cozenage by 
false Evidence or Writings: of the nature of the Moon, Tumults, Commotions, Wind-chollick, 
danger by Water, &c, of the nature of the Sun, envy of Magistrates, hurt in the Eyes, &c. of the 
nature of Jupiter, oppression by domineering Priests, or by some Gentleman: of the nature of 
Venus, then prejudice by some Woman, the Pox, or Cards, Dice and Wantonnesse. 


[CAUTION.] 

You must carefully avoid pronouncing Death rashly, and upon one single testimony, you must 
observe, though the Lord of the Ascendant be going to Combustion, whether either Jupiter or 
Venus cast not some Sextile or Trine to the Lord of the Ascendant, ere he come to perfect 
Combustion, or any other infortune, for that is an argument that either Medicine or Strength of 
Nature will contradict that malignant influence, or take off part of that misfortune; but when you 
find two or more of the rules asforesaid concurring to death, you may be more bold in your 
Judgement; yet concerning the absolute time of death of any party, I have found it best to be 
wary, and have as much as I could, refrained this manner of judgement; onely this much by the 
Question may be knowne, that if you find the Significators, as aforesaid, afflicted, you may judge 
the man or party inquiring to be no long lived man, or subject to many miseries and calamities, 
and this I know by many verified examples; the knowledge hereof is of excellent use for such as 
would purchase any Lease or Office, or thing for Life or Lives, &c. or for those who would 
carefully in a naturall way prevent those casualties their natures or inclinations would run them 
into. 


To What Part of Heaven its Best the Querent Direct His 
Affairs, or Wherein He May Live Most Happily. 


You must know that the twelve Houses are divided into the East, West, North and South quarters 
of Heaven. 


The Cusp of the first house is the beginning of the East, and its 


132 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


called the East Angle, from the Degree of the first house to the Degree or Cusp of the 10th House 
or Medium Coeli, containing the 12,11 and 10th houses, are East, inclining to the South: from 
the Cuspe of the 10 house to the Cusp of the 7th house, containing the 9,8, and 7, is South, 
verging toward the West: from the degree of the 7th house to the Cusp of the 4th, consisting of 
the 6,5, and 4th houses, is the West, tending to the North: from the Degree of the 4th house to the 
degrees of the Ascendant, containing the 3,2,and Ist houses, is North inclining to the East.. 


Having viewed the several quarters of Heaven, see in which of them you finde the Planet that 
promiseth the Querent most good, and where you find Jupiter, Venus, Moon and Part of Fortune, 
or two or more of them, the quarter that direct your affaires; and if you have the Part of Fortune 
and the Moon free from Combustion and other misfortunes, go that wayes, or to that quarter of 
Heaven where you finde her; for you must consider, that though Jupiter and Venus be Fortunes, 
yet casually they may be Infortunes, when they are Lords of the 8,12,or 6th, in that case you 
must avoyd the quarter they are in, and observe the Part of Fortune and the Moon and the Lord of 
the Ascendant; and as neere as you can avoyd that quarter of Heaven where the infortunes are, 
especially when they are Significators of mischiefe, otherwayes either Mars or Saturn being Lord 
of the Ascendant or 2nd house, 10th or 11th, may (being essentially strong) prove friendly. The 
general way of resolving this Question is thus; If the Querent does onely desire to live where he 
may most enjoy most health, look in what signe and quarter of Heaven the Lord of the Ascendant 
and the Moon are in, and which of them are strongest, and does cast his or her more friendly 
Aspect to the Degree ascending; to that quarter of Heaven repaire for Heavens sake: 

If the Querent desire to know to what part he may steer his course for obtaining of an Estate or 
Fortune, then see where and ‘in what quarter of Heaven the Lord of the 2nd is placed, and the 
Part of Fortune, and his Dispositor or two of them; for where and in what quarter they are best 
fortified, from thence may he expect his most advantage, &c. Of this I shall speak casually in 
subsequent Judgments. 


133 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


The Resolution of 


What Part of His LIFE is Like to be Best. 


See either in what Angle or quarter of Heaven the fortunate and promising Planets are posited in; 
for in this way of Judicature, we give usually to every house five yeers, but sometimes more or 
lesse, according as you see the Significators promising Life or Death, (but commonly five yeers 
we give) beginning with the 12th, and so to the 11th, then the 10th, the 9th, &c. and so to the 
Ascendant; as if in your question you find Jupiter or Venus in the 11th or 10th house, you may 
judge the Man or Woman to have lived happily from the Sth yeer of his age to the 15th, or in his 
youth: if they, or either of them, be in the 8th or 7th, they declare that from 20 to 30 he will, or 
hath lived, and may live contentedly: if Jupiter or Venus be in the 6th, 5th, or 4th, then judge 
after his middle age, or from 30 to 45, he may do well: If you find Jupiter or Venus in the 3rd, 
2nd, or Ist, then his best days, or his greatest happinesse will be towards his old age, or after he 
is forty five until sixty; if you find the Significators of Life very strong, and signifying long life, 
you may adde one yeer to every house, for it’s then possible the Querent may live more than 
sixty years, or until seventy, or more, as many we know doe. 


Lastly, you must observe at the time of your Question, how the Lord of the Ascendant and the 
Moon are separated, from what Planet, and by what Planet, and by what aspect; the seperation of 
those shew the manner of Accidents which have preceeded the Question; their next application, 
what in the future may be expected; if you consider what house or houses, the Planet or Planets 
they separated from are Lords of, it aquaints you with the matter, nature, person and quality of 
the thing already happened: ill, if the aspect was ill; Good, if the aspect was good; and if you 
observe the quality of the next aspect by application, and the well or ill being and position of the 
Planet or Planets applied unto, it delivers the quality of the next succeeding Accidents and 
Casualities, their nature, proportion, time when they will happen or come upon the Querent. 


134 


Compliments of http://mithras93.tripod.com 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Anno 1632. 
dia: 2. fasmany 
a 2b ig? PM, 


liom, ast: oF 


1Queslian : 





[Note: Modern copies of all charts 
appear in Appendix A.] 


An Astrologicall Judgment Concerning These Demands 
Propounded by the Querent. 
1. If he were like to live long, yea or not. 
2. To what part of the world he were best direct his course of life. 
3. | What part of his life, was in possibility like to be most fortunate. 
4. He desired I would relate (if possible by a figure) some of the general 
Accidents 
had happened unto him already. 


5. | What Accidents in future he might expect, good or evil. 


6. The time when. 


The Stature of the Querent is signified by Leo, the Signe Ascendant; there is a Fixed star called 
Cor Leonis neer the cuspe of the Ist house, viz., in 24:34 of Leo, of the nature of Mars and 
Jupiter, and 1st magnitude; both the cuspe of the Ist house and degree of the signe wherein Sun, 
Lord of the Ascendant is in, are 


135 


The Resolution of 


the termes of Jupiter; the Moon is in Trine aspect with both Jupiter and Venus, and they in the 
10th house; so that the form and Stature of the Querents body are decent, of middle stature 
strongly compacted, neither fat or fleshy, but comely, wanting no gracefulnesse in its composure; 
a fair Visage, reddish haire, cleere Skin, some cuts on his right Cheek, (for he was a Soldier;) but 
certainly the presence of the Fixed star in the Ascendant, which represents the Face, occasioned 
those hurts or scarres. 


As the signe ascending is fiery, and as the Lord of the Ascendant is in a fiery signe, and by nature 
is Hot and Dry, so was this gentlemans temper and condition, being exceeding Valiant, 
Cholerick, high Minded, and of great spirit; for Sun, Lord of the Ascendant is in his Exaltation; 
yet in regard the Moon is in Trine with the two Fortunes, he is sober, modest, and by Education 
excellently qualified, and thereby had great command of his Passion; but as the Moon was in 
Opposition to Mercury, he had his times of Anger and Folly, whereby he much prejudiced his 
affaires. But to our question. 


If Live Long, &c. 


Finding the Ascendant not vitiated with the presence of either 
Saturne, who is Lord of the 6th, or of Jupiter who is Lord of the 
8th. 


Seeing the Lord of the Ascendant was in exaltation, no ways impedited, pretty quick in motion, 
in the 9th house, and in the Termes of Jupiter. 


Observing the Moon separated from Trine of Venus applying to Trine of Jupiter, and he posited 
in the mid heaven, and thereby the malice of Mars restrained by the interposition of Jupiter. 


Considering the Sun was above the earth, the fortunate Planets, viz. Jupiter and Venus Angular, 
and more potent than the infortunates, viz. Saturn or Mars: from hence I concluded, that 
according to naturall causes, he might live many yeers; and that Nature was strong, and he 
subject to few Diseases, This hath hitherto proved true; he being yet alive this present, March 
1646. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


To What Part of the WORLD, or of the KINGDOM, he Might 
Best Apply Himself to Live in. 


The Lord of the Ascendant is Sun, who being neer the Cuspe of the 9th house,(signifying long 
journeys) and the signe thereof Moveable; I intimated he was resolving sodainly upon a Journey 
South-East, or to those parts of the World which lye from London South-East: South, because the 
quarter of Heaven wherein the Lord of the Ascendant is in, is South: East, because the Signe 
where Sun is in is East (this be confessed:) And as the Sun was but 2 degrees 10 min. distant 
from the cusp of the 9th, he went away within two months; for Sun was 4:18 Aries. 


I judged those Countries subject to the Signe of Aries, might be suitable and propitious to his 
Affaires; which you may see in the nature of Aries, pag. 95 and what their Names are, to which I 
now refer. 


Had his resolution been to have staid in England, the North Node and Sun being both in Aries, 
show it might have been good for him, for England is subject to Aries; I would have advised him 
to have steered his court life towards Kent, Essex, Suffex or Suffolk, for they lye East or by 
South from London; but if sometimes you find that a city, towne or kingdome subject to the 
Celestiall Signe which promises you good, stands not, as to the quarter of Heaven, directly as 
you would have it, or as the Signe points it out; herein you must observe this generall rule; That 
if your occasions enforce you, or you shall and must live in that Country, City, or Towne, so 
directed unto you in Art, that then you must lead your life, or direct your actions, or manage your 
employments to those parts of that city or country which lye East, West, North or South, as in the 
Figure you were directed as for Example; You may see France is subject to the Signe Aries, it 
lyeth from London South-west: had this gentleman gone into France, it would have been best for 
him to have seated himself towards the South-east part, or East part of France, &c, 


Now because the Moon applied so strongly to the Trine of Jupiter, and that he and Venus were in 
Taurus, and the Signe signifies Ireland. 


The Resolution of 


I advised him that Ireland would well agree with his constitution, and that he might get 
Honour there, becausethe Planet to whom the Moon applies is in the house of Honour. 


And verily the Querent did go into Ireland, and there performed good service and obtained a 
notable Victory against the rebels; as I could manifest, but that I will not mention the Name of 
the Gentleman, 


What Part of His Life Would be Left. 


Considering the two Fortunes were placed in the 10th house, and that North Node and Sun were 
in the 9th, I judged his younger yeers would be the most pleasant of all his whole life; feeling 
also Mars in the 8th house, Which according to our owne direction of time comes to be about 
24,25 or 26 of his age; I judged that about those times he had many crosses, or first of all his 
afflictions then began; and seeing further no fortunate Planet was either in the 7th, 6th, 5th, 4th 
or 3rd houses, I judged those Calamities or Misfortunes should not suddenly come upon him, 
because the Moon was in application to a Trifle of Jupiter, and wanted almost 3 degrees of 
comming to his perfect aspect; wherefore I conceived by means of some man in authority 
represented _ by Jupiter, or some Courtier or person of quality, for almost 3 years after the 
proposal of the Question, he should be supported and affiliated in his affaires, or else get 
Imployment answerableto his desires; had Jupiter been Essentially fortified, I should have 
judged him a more durable fortune. 


What General Accidents Had Happened Already. 


Although it is not usuall to be so nice or inquisitive, yet seeing the question so radical, I first 
considered from what Planet or Planets the Sun, who is Lord of the Ascendant, had last 
separated; if you look into the Ephemeris of that yeer, you shall find, that the Sun had lately, 
during his passage 


All manner of QUESTIONS. 


through the Signe Pisces, been first in Conjunction with Mars, then in Square of Saturn, lately in 
Sextile of Jupiter; now, for that Mars in our Figure is Lord of the 4th house, signifying Lands, 
etc. and was now locally in the 8th, which signifies the substance of Women, I judged he had 
been molested of late concerning some lands, or the Jointure or Portion of his Wife or a Woman; 
wherein I was confirmed the more, because the Moon was also applying to an Opposition of 
Mars, in this Figure placed in the 8th house; for the Moon being in the Querents house of 
substance, viz. the 2nd, intimated the quarrell or strife should be for, or concerning Money, for 
such things as are significated by that house: (and this was very true.) 


Because Sun had already been in Square of Saturn, who is Significator of the Querent’s Wife, I 
told him I feared his Wife and he had lately been at great variance; and because Saturn her 
Significator did dispose of his Part of Fortune, I judged she had no mind he should have any of 
her estate, or manage it, but kept it to her own use; for Saturn is Retrograde, a superior Planet, 
and in a fiery signe, and that signe of the 7th is Fixed; these show her a Virago, or gallant spirited 
woman, and not willing to be curbed, or else to submit: (This was confessed.) 


[IT WAS THE LORD COVENTRY. ] 

Lastly, because Sun was lately in Sextile with Jupiter and Jupiter was in the 10th; I told him, 
either some great Lawyer or Courtier had endeavoured to reconcile the differences betwixt them; 
and forasmuch as both the Sun who was his Significator, and Saturn who was hers, did now both 
apply to a Trine aspect, there seemed to be at present a willingnesse in both parties to be 
reconciled; nor did I see any great obstruction in the matter, except Mercury who is in Square 
aspect with Saturn, did impedite it; I judged Mercury in the general, to signifie either some 
attorney, or lawyer, or writings; but as he is Lord of the Querent’s 2nd, it might be because the 
Querent would not consent to give or allow such a summe of money as might be demanded, or 
that the Querents purse was to weak, he had not wherewithall to solicite his cause lustily; or as 
Mercury is Lord of the 11th house, some pretended friend would impedite her, or advise the 
contrary, or some of her Lawyers; or as the 11th is in the 5th from the 7th, a child of the 
Querent’s wife might be occasion of continuing the breach. ( I believe every particular herein 
proved true; however, this was the way to find the occasion or thing disturbing their unity or 
concord. ) 


The Resolution of 


Observe as Venus Lady of the 10th, doth dispose of Jupiter Lord of the 8th, viz. the wife’s 
Fortune, so she had entrusted her estate to a great Nobleman.. 


That Accidents in Future He Might Expect; Time When, 


In this Quere, I first considered the Sun Lord of the Ascendant, who being no ways unfortunated, 
or in any evill aspect with any Planet, which might impeach or impedite him, but on the contrary 
excellently fortified, I judged, he had the wide world to ramble in, (for a Planet strong, and in no 
aspect with others shewes a man at liberty to doe what he will;) and that for many yeers he might 
(quoad capax) live in a prosperous condition (according to the preceding limitation) and traverse 
much ground, or see many Countries; because Aries, the Signe wherein the Sun is in, is 
moveable, placed on the cusp of the 9th, signifying long journeys, which prenoted many turnings 
and shiftings, variety of action in sundry parts. 


Secondly, I observed the Moon in the Querent’s house of substance, viz. the 2nd, did apply to 
Jupiter in the 10th house, and that Jupiter was Lord Of the 5th house and 8th: the 5th house 
signifies Children; the 8th denoted the substance of the 

Wife: From hence I gathered, that the Querent was very desirious to treat with some Nobleman 
(because Jupiter is in the 10th) about the Education of his Child or Children, and that there might 
be a Salary payable for their breeding and education, out of the Wife’s Jointure or annuall 
Revennue:(such a thing as this in one kind or another, he did settle before he went out of 
England.) 


Thirdly, I found the Moon in the signe Virgo (Peregrine) it being a Diurnal Question, else she 
hath a Triplicity in that Trygon by night. 


Fourthly, I found Mercury Lord of the 2nd house, viz. signifying his Fortune and Estate, in 
Pisces, which is his Detriment, yet in his own Termes, afflicted by Mars, from whose Opposition 
the Moon lately had separated. 


From hence I collected, that he had been in great want of Money a little before the Question 
asked; and if we look how many degrees 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


there is distant betwixt Moon and Mercury, since their Opposition last past, we shall find them to 
be 6 degrees, 21 min., viz. 6 degrees and 21 minutes which noted, that he had been in some want 
of Money for about 6 months and somewhat more, or thereabouts, before the time of demanding 
the Question: (this was confessed.) 


Fiftly, feeling the Moon was applying to a Trine of Jupiter, of which signification I spoke before, 
and then before she got out of the Signe Virgo, did occur the Opposition of Mars: I did aquaint 
the Querent, that after some yeers or times of pleasure, he would be in great danger of losing his 
Life, Goods, Lands and Fortune. His life, because Mars is in the 8th: His Goods and Estate, 
because Moon is in the 2nd: His Lands or Inheritance, because Mars is Lord of the 4th, now 
placed in the 8th. For the 4th house signifies Lands, &c. 


The Time When. 


In this quere I considered the application of the Moon to a Trine of Jupiter, which wanting about 
3 degrees from the true aspect, I judged for some times succeeding the Question, or for 3 yeers, 
he might live pleasantly. 


Secondly, feeling the Sun Lord of the Ascendant, during his motion through the Signe Aries, did 
not meet with any malevolent aspect, and had 26 degrees to run through of the Sign, ere he got 
into Taurus; I gave in this nature of judgment, for every degree 1 moneth, and so told him, That 
for about 26 moneths following, or untill after 2 yeers, or much about that time, I judged he 
should live in a free condition in those parts into which he intended his Journey, &c. 


Last of all, I considered how many degrees the Moon wanted ere she came to the true Opposition 
of Mars. 


Longitude of Mars 28 40 
Longitude of Moon 21 18 
Difference 7 22 


The difference is 7 degrees and 22 minutes; which if I proportion into time, and neither give 
yeers, because the Significators are in Common Signes, and not in Fixed ; or moneths, because 
the Signes doe signifie somewhat more; but doe proportion a meane between both: the time 
limited in this way of Judicature, will 


The Resolution of 


amount to about 3 yeers and 3 quarters (3 3/4 years) from the time of asking the Question, ere the 
malevolent Opposition of the Moon to Mars shall take effect: But in regard his quere was 
generall, I might have allowed for every degree | yeer: After, or about which time, he was in 
severall actions both dangerous to his Person and Fortune; and since that time, till the time of 
publishing hereof, he hath had his Intervals of good and 111, but is now under the frowne of 
Fortune, &c. 


But as the Sun at time of the Question was strong, he did overcome all — manner of 
difficulties for many yeers, and subsisted, and hath in our unlucky differences had honorable 
Imployment on his Majesties part: but as the Moon is in Opposition to Mars, so it was not 
without the generall out-cry and exclamations of the people; nor was it his fortune, though in 
great Commands, ever to doe his Majesty any notable piece of Service; yet is he now forever, by 
just Sentence of the Parliament, deprived of so much happinesse as to end his dayes in England; 
which, though in some measure, might have been forseen, by the Moon her Opposition to Mars, 
being Lord of the 4th, viz. the end of all things. 


Yet we must herein admire Providence, and acknowledge according to that strong Maxime of 
Astrologers; That the generall Fate of any Kingdome is more prevalent, then the private geniture 
or question of any Subject or King whatsoever. 


Very little of this Judgment hath already failed; I have heen herein somewhat large, because 
young Students might thereby benefit the more; and if my Judgments doe vary from the common 
Rules of the ANCIENTS, let the Candid Reader excuse me, sith he may still follow their 
Principles if he please; and he must know, that from my Conversation in their Writings, I have 
attained the Method I follow. 


ALL MANNER OF QUESTIONS 


CHAPTER XXIII. 


Of the Part of Fortune, and How to Take it, 
Either by Day or Night. 


Ptolomy doth not more consider a Planet then the Part of Fortune, it hath no aspect, but any 
Planets cast their aspects unto it. 


The greatest use of it, that hitherto I have either read or made of it for, is thus; That if we find it 
well placed in the Heaven, in a good house, or in a good aspect of a benevolent Planet, we judge 
the Fortune or estate of the Querent to be correspondent unto its strength, viz. if it be wel posited 
or in an angle, or in those Signes wherein it’s fortunated, we judge the estate of the Querent to be 
sound and firm, if Part of Fortune is otherwayes placed, we do the contrary. 


The Manner Either Night or Day to Take it is Thus: 


First, consider the Signe, degree and minute of the Moon. 

Secondly, the Signe, degree and minute of the Sun. 

Thirdly, subtract the place of the Sun from the Moon, by adding 12 Signes to the Moon if 
you cannot do it otherwise; what remains, reserve and add to the Signe and degrees of the 
Ascendant; if both added together make more than 12 Signes, cast away 12, and what Signes, 
degrees and minutes remain, let your Part of Fortune be there: For example in our present Figure: 


The Moon is in 21:18 of Virgo, or after 5 Signes, in 21 degrees 18 minutes Virgo. 
The Sun is 00 Signes, 4 degrees 18 minutes of Aries. Set them together thus: 
Place of the Moon 5s 21d 18m 
Place of the Sun Os 4d 18m 


I subtract the Sun from the Moon thus: I begin with minutes, 
18m from 18m, remains nothing. 
Next I subtract degrees, 4d from 21d, reflects 17 degrees. 
Then Os from 5s, remains 5s: All put together, there does rest in Signes and degrees as 
follows: 
5s 17d 00m 
To these 5, Signes 17degrees, I adde the Signe ascending which is 4 Signes 23.degrees, 
27.minutes, or the 23:27 of Leo. 


The Resolution of 


Sig Deg Min 
Then itis thus: 5s 17d 00m (distance of sun from Moon) 
4s 23d 27m (Signes/degrees of the Asc.) 
Added together 10s 10d 27m 


they make: 


Viz. 10 Signes, 10 degrees and 27 minutes, which direct you to know, that after 10 Signes 
numbered from Aries, you must place the Part of Fortune, viz. in 10 degrees and 27 minutes of 
Aquarius, for Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn are 10 
Signes, etc. and Aquarius the 11th in order. 


Whether your Figure be by day or night, observe this Method; for how many degrees the Sun is 
distant from the Moon, so many is the Part of Fortune from the Ascendant; but because this may 
not be thoroughly understood by every Learner upon a sudden, let him observe this generall rule, 
the better to guide him. 


If the Part of Fortune be taken upon a New Moon, it will be in the Ascendant.. 

If upon the Ist Quarter, in the 4th house. 

If upon the Full Moon, in the 7th house. 

If upon the Last Quarter, in the 10th house. 

After the change, and before the 1st Quarter, you shall ever have her in the Ist, 2nd or 3rd 
house. 

After the Ist Quarter until the Full Moon, in the 4th, 5th or 6th house. 

After the Full Moon until the Last Quarter, in the 7th, 8th or 9th house. 

After the Last Quarter, either in the 10th, 11th or 12th house 


So that if the Learner doe mistake, he may by this method easily see his errour; ever 
remembering, that the more dayes are passed after the Change or Quarter, &c, the more remote 
the Part of Fortune is from the Angle preceeding. 


Some have used to take Part of Fortune in the night from the Moon to the Sun; which if you doe, 
you must then make the place of your Sun your first place, and adde the Ascendant as in the 
former method. Ptolomie, day and night takes it as above directed, with whom all practicioners at 
this day consent. 


Here follows a Table, by help whereof you may examine the strength of the Part of Fortune in 
any Figure you erect. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Part of In the Taurus, Pisces 5 
Fortune is Signs Lib,Sag,Leo,Cancer 4 
strong and of Gemini 3 
fortunate Virgo (terms Jup. 2 
or Venus ) 
If in Conjunct.. w/Jup or Venus, has Dignities 5 
In Trine with Jupiter or Venus 4 
In Sextile with Jupiter or Venus 2 
In Conjunction with North Node 3 
Ist or 10th, has dignities 5 
P.O.F. is 7th, 4th, 11th 4 
strong in 2nd or 5th ) 
houses, viz.. 9th 2 
If in: 3rd 1 
In Conjunct with Regulus(24:34 Leo) 6 
with any of with Spica Virginis(18:33 Lib) 5 
these Fixed not Combust, or under Sun Beams 5 
Stars. 
The P.O.F. is Vir,Cap,Aqu (dibilities) 5 
weak in: Aries (neither gets or loses) 5 
Conjunct Saturn or Mars (dibil.) 5 
Conyunct South Node 3 
P.O.F. is weak Opposition Saturn or Mars 4 
by conjunction Square of Saturn or Mars 3 
or aspect.. In Termes of Saturn or Mars Z 
Inthe 12th house 5 
As also by being Inthe 8th house 4 
in Houses, viz. Inthe 6th house 4 
With Caput Algol in 20 degrees 54 minutes Taurus 4 
Combust 5 


There are many other Parts which the Arabians have mentioned frequently in their Writings, of 
which we make very little use in this Age: I shall, as occasion offers, teach the finding them out, 
and what they said, they did signifie: Sometimes the Part Of Fortune hath signification of Life, 
and sometimes of Sicknesse; which occasionally I shall teach, as matter and occasion offer, 
addhereing to the true observation of the Ancients: but I am little hitherto satisfied concerning 
Part Of Fortune its true effects; intending to take paines therein hereafter, and publish my 
intentions.. 


*P.O.F.} Part of Fortune 


The Resolution of 


The Preceding Figure Judged by a More Short Method. 


1. The Ascendant not afflicted, Lord of the Ascendant Essentially fortified, the Moon Trine 
with both the Fortunes; Signes of long life.. 


2: Jupiter and Venus in the South Angle, in Taurus, a Southeast Signe; Sun in Aries, an 
Easterly Signe; Moon in Virgo, a Southern or South-west Signe; best to travel Southward, or a 
little East. 


3. Jupiter and Venus in the Midheaven, North Node and Sun in the 9th; his younger years 
are most full of pleasure.. 


4. Sun Lord of the Ascendant, lately separated from good and ill aspects; Moon also 
separated as well from Opposition of Mercury as Trine of Venus; shew both good and ill had 
happened of late; Good, because of the good aspects: ill, by reaction of the malevolent: but the 
evill aspects being more in number than the good, and signified by superiour Planets; augment 
the evil and lessen the Good.. 


5. Moon applying to Trine of Jupiter the Sun Lord of the Ascendant in Exaltation promise 
Preferment.. 

Moon weak in the 2nd, and after her trine with Jupiter going to Opposition of Mars; 
shows, after a little time of Joy, great danger. 


6. The small distance of degrees between the Trine of Moon to Jupiter, and he Angular; 
denotes a present happinesse or fortune neer to the Querent. 

Her greater distance from Opposition of Mars, shew his miseries to succeed some yeers 
after his times of honor are expired, &c.. In such a nature I ever contract my Judgment.. 


I with all young Beginners at first to write down their Judgments in length, and the reasons in 
ART, as fully as they can, and afterward to contract their opinions into a narrow compasse: by 
following these directions, they will have the Rules of ART perfectly in their memory: I also 
wish them in delivering their Judgment to the Querent, to avoid termes of ART in their 
Discourse, unless it be to one understands the ART.. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


If One Shall Find the Party at Home He Would Speak Withall. 


The Ascendant and his Lord are for the Querent, the 7th house and his Lord from him you would 
speak withall; this is understood, if you goe to speak with one you familiarly deale withall, or are 
much conversant with, and is not allied unto you, &c, but if you would goe speak with the 
Father, you must take the Lord of the 4th; if with the Mother, the Lord of the 10th; if the Father 
would speak with his Child, the Lord of the Sth, and so in the rest; vary your rule and it serves 
for all. 


If the Lord of the 7th house be in any of the 4 Angles, you may conclude the party is at home 
with whom you would speak with; but if the Lord of the 7th, or Lord of that house from whom 
judgment is required, be in a Succeedant house, viz. 11th, 2nd, 5th or 8th, then he is not far from 
home; but if his Significator be in a Cadent house, then he is far from home. 


If you find the Lord of the Ascendant applying to the Lord of the 7th house by any perfect aspect, 
the same day that you intend to goe visit him, you may assured either to meet him going to his 
house, or heare of him by the way where he is, for he cannot be farre absent; or if any Planet, or 
the Moon, separate from the Lord of the 7th house, and transfere his light unto the Lord of the 
Ascendant, he shall know where and in what place the Party is, by such a one as is signified by 
that Planet who transfers his light; describe the Planet, and it personates the Man or Woman 
accordingly; but whether it will be Man or Woman, you must know by the nature of the Planet, 
Signe and quarter of Heaven he is in, wherein plurality of masculine Testimonies argue a man, 
the contrary a woman. 


The Resolution of 


Of A Thing Suddenly Happening, Whether it 
Signifies Good or Evil. 


Erect your Figure of Heaven at what time the Accident happened, else when you first heard of it; 
then consider who is Lord of the Signe wherein the Sunne is, and the Lord of that Signe wherein 
the Moon is, and the Lord of the house of Life, which is ever the Ascendant, and see which of 
these is most powerfull in the Ascendant, let his position be considered, and if he be in Sextile or 
Trifle with the Sun, Jupiter or Venus, there will no evill chance upon the preceding Accident, 
Rumour or Report; but if you find that Planet weak in the scheame, combust or in Square, 
Opposition or Conjunction of Mars, Saturn or Mercury, there will some misfortune follow after 
that accident, in one kind or other; if you consider the Planet afflicting your Significator; his 
posture and nature, it may easily be discovered, in what nature the evill will chance or upon what 
occasion; as if the Lord of the 3rd, from or by some neighbour or Kinsman; if the Lord of the 
2nd impedite them, then losse in substance; if Lord of the 4th, expect discontent with one of your 
Parents, or about Land or Houses; if the Lord of the 5th, some difference or discord in an 
Alehouse or Taverne, or in Company keeping, or by meanes of some child, &c. and so of the 
rest. 


What Mark, Mole or Scarre the Querent Has in Any 
Member of His Body. 


I have many times admired at the verity hereof, and it hath been one maine argument of my 
engaging so farre in all the parts of Astrology, for very rarely shall you find these rules faile, 


When you have upon any demand erected the Querent’s Figure, consider the Signe Ascending, 
what member of man’s body it represents, and tell the Querent he hath a Mole, Scarre or Marke 
on that part of his body represented by that Signe; as if the Signe Ascending be Taurus, it’s on the 
Neck: if in Gemini, on the Arms, &c., also in which of the 12 Signe of the Zodiac the Lord 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


of the Ascendant is in, and in that member represented by that Signe, he or she hath another. 


Then observe the Signe descending on the cusp of the 6th house, and what part of man’s body it 
personates, for in that member shall you find another; so shall you discover another in that 
member which is signified by the Signe wherein the Lord of the 6th is. 


Last of all, consider what Signe the Moon is in, and what member of mans body it denotes, 
therein shall you also find a Mark, Mole or Scarre; if Saturn signifies the Mark, it’s a darkest, 
obscure, black one; if Mars, then it’s usually some Scarre or Cut if he be in a Fire Signe, or else 
in any other Signe, a red Mole; and you must always know, that if either the Signe, or the Planet 
signifying the Mole, Mark or Scar, be much afflicted, the Mark or Scarre is the greater and more 
eminent. 


If the Signe be Masculine, and the Planet Masculine, the Mole or Scarre is on the right side of 
the body. 


The contrary judge, if the Signe be Feminine, and the Lord thereof in a Feminine Signe. 


If the Significator of the Scarre or Mole be above the earth, (that is, from the Cusp of the 
Ascendant to the Cusp of the 7th, as either in the 12th, 11th, 10th, 9th, 8th or 7th) the Mark is on 
the fore part of the body, or visible to the eye, or on the out-side of the member; but if the 
Significator be under the earth, viz., in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th or 6th, the Mole or Scarre is on 
the back part of the body, not visible, but on the inside of the member. 


If few degrees of a Signe doe ascend, or if the Lord of the Signe be in a few degrees, the Mole, 
Mark or Scarre is in the upper part of the member; if the middle of the Signe ascend, or the Lord 
thereof in the middle, or neer the middle of the Signe, the Mole or Mark is so in the member, viz. 
in the middle: If the latter degrees ascend, or the Moon, or Lord of the Ist or 6th house be neer 
the last degrees of the Sign, the Mole Mark or Scarre is neere the lower part of the member. 


If your Question be radicall, the time rightly taken, and the party enquiring be of sufficient age, 
or no Infant, you shall rarely find error in this rule: I have many times upon a sudden 


The Resolution of 


in company, trying this experiment upon some of the company, and ever found it true, as many in 
this city well know. In November and December, when Signes of short ascenscions are in the 
Ascendant, you must be wary, for in regard many times the Sun is not then visible, and Clocks 
may faile, it’s possible to be deceived, and misse of a right Ascendant, for Pisces and Aries doe 
each of them ascend in the space of 3 quarters of an hour, and some few minutes; Aquarius and 
Taurus in | hour and some odde minutes; but if you have the time of the day exact, you need not 
ever mistrust the verity of your Judgment: which will infinitely satisfie any that are students 
herein, and cause them to take great pleasure in the ART, and make them sensible, that there is as 
much sincerity in all the whole ART OF ASTROLOGIE, when it is rightly understood and 
practized, which at this day I must confesse it is by very few. 


As these rules will hold certaine upon the body of every Querent, and in every question, so will 
they upon the body of the quesited, (mutatis, mutandis;) as if one enquires somewhat concerning 
his Wife, then the Signe of the 7th house, and the Signe wherein the Lord of the 7th is, shall 
show the Woman’s Marks; so shall the Signe upon the Cusp of the 12th, for that is the 6th from 
the 7th, and the Signe wherein the Lord of the 12th is in, shew two more Moles or Marks of the 
woman. 


Usually an Infortune in the Ascendant blemishes the Face with some Mole or Scarre according to 
his nature, for the 1st house signifies the Face, the 2nd the Neck, the 3rd the Arms and Shoulders, 
the 4th the Breast and Paps, the Sth the Heart, &c.. and so every house and Signe in order, 
according to succession; for what Signe soever is in the Ascendant, yet in every Question the Ist 
house represents the Face: Many times if the Moon be in Conjunction or Opposition of the Sun, 
the Querent hath some blemish or the like near one of his Eyes; and this is ever true, if the 
Opposition or Conjunction be in Angles, and either of them have any ill aspect to Mars. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Whether One Absent be Dead or Alive. 


If a Question be demanded of one absent in a generall way, and the Querent hath no relation to 
the party; then the Ist house, the Lord of that house and the Moon shall signify the absent party; 
the Lord of the 8th House or Planet posited in the House or within five degrees of the Cuspe of 
the 8th House shall shew his death or its quality. 


In judging this Question, see first whether the Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon and the Lord of 
the 8th House or Planet in the 8th house be corporally joined together; or that the Moon, Lord of 
the Ascendant and the Lord of the 8th are in Opposition either in the 8th and 2nd, or 12th and 
6th, for these are arguments the party is deceased, or sick, and very neer death. 


See also if there be any translation of the light of the Lord of the Ascendant unto the Lord of the 
8th, especially in degrees deepe, lame or deficient; or on the contrary, that there be any 
translation or carrying the vertue or influence of the Lord of the 8th unto the Lord of the 
Ascendant; or if the Lord of the 8th be posited in the Ascendant, or if the Lord of the Ascendant 
and the Moon be placed in the 4th house, these are testimonies the party absent be dead. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant be separated from a bad Aspect of the Lord of the 6th, you may say 
the absent hath been lately sicke; if from the Lord of the 8th, he hath been in danger of death, but 
is not dead; if from the Lord of the 12th, he hath been lately much troubled in mind, in feare of 
imprisonment, arrests, &c., if from the Lord of the 2nd, he hath been hard put to it for money, or 
in distresse for want; if from the Lord of the 7th, in some quarrell or contention; if from the Lord 
of the 9th or 3rd, he hath been crossed in his journey (if he was at Sea by contrary windes or 
Pyrats) if at land by Theives, bad Ways &c., and so of the rest. In judging this question, I have 
ever found, that if the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 9th, 10th, or 11th (though many reports 
went the absent was dead) yet I have found him to live. Now if you find the absent alive, and you 
would know, when happily you may heare of him; see in your 


The Resolution of 


Ephemerides when the Lord of 11th and the Lord of the Ascendant come to a Trine or Sextile 
Aspect and about that time, if not that day, newes will be had of him; or if the Moon apply to a 
sextile or trine of the Lord of the Ascendant See how many degrees shee wants of the Aspect, 
and give dayes, weekes or moneths, viz. For every degree 

in MOVEABLE Signes -- DAY, 

in COMMON Signes -- WEEKS, 

in FIXEDSignes  -- MONTHS. 





A Further Explanation of the Preceding Judgments 
by the Figure Succeeding. 


23} h, 45°PM 
2: Question... 





RESOLUTION OF THESE QUESTIONS FOLLOWING: 


1.If find the party inquired of at home. 

2.A thing suddenly happening, whether good or bad is intended? 
3. What Moles or Marks the Querent has? 

4. If one absent be dead or alive? 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAPTER XXvV. 


Viz. A Woman being at my House in the country, demanded if her Sonne were with his 
Master, or at her owne House. 


In this Figure Venus is Lady of the Ascendant, and shall signifie her that asked the Question; the 
matter quesited after must be required from that house which signifies Children, and that is the 
5th: I considered Jupiter who is Lord of the Signe Pisces, for Pisces is the house of Jupiter, and I 
found Jupiter, the Youths Significator, in the Angle of the East, or Ascendant; one argument, that 
the Party sought after was at home at his Mother’s house at time of the Question: I observed 
further, that the Moon did apply to a Sextile Dexter of Saturn, Lord of the 4th, which signifies 
the house or dwelling place of the Querent; from which two testimonies, I judged the Youth was 
at his Mothers, and that she should find him there at her comming home, as indeed she did: 

now had I found Jupiter, Lord of the 5th, in the 10th, because that is the house which signifies 
the Master, or had the Moon separated from Jupiter, Significator of the youth, and presently 
applied to a good or indifferent aspect of the Sun, and she, viz. Moon been in an Angle, I would 
have adjudged him at his Master’s house, &c. I did further consider that the 25 of July following, 
at two hours after noon, Jupiter and Venus being both their Significators, viz. both the Mothers 
and the Sons came to a Trifle aspect, and therefore I judged she should see him that very day, but 
hardly any sooner, or before; (and indeed she stayed in the country till that very morning; but 
when the strength of the influence grew powerful, and as well her Significatrix, as his, were so 
neer their perfect aspect, she could not be induced to stay any longer, and so (volens nolens) 
went away, and it was about three in the afternoon the same day before she could get home, 
where she found her Sonne in her owne house, abiding her comming; for usually about that day 
when the Significators came to a Trine or Sextile aspect (which you may know by your 
ephemeris) it’s very probably you shall have a Letter, or newes of the Party quesited after (if the 
distance of places betwixt you can afford it,) but if the Party enquiring, and Person inquired after 
be not farre asunder, without question they meet 


The Resolution of 


that very day, though neither of them formerly thought any such matter. 


Had this Woman enquired, if she should have found a Neighbor or Brother or Sister at home, or 
not; 


You must have taken signification from Jupiter, who is Lord of the 3rd house; for you may see in 
the signification of the houses, pag.52, that the 3rd house signifies Brethern, Sisters, Kindred and 
Neighbors; you might safely have adjudged, she should have found any one of these at home, 
because Jupiter their Significator is in an Angle, 


But if she had enquired, whether she should have found a Party at home, yea or not, to whom she 
had no relation, but as to a stranger; then Mars the Lord of the 7th; had been his Significator, 
whom I find to be in the Signe of Sagittarius, and in the 2nd house of Heaven, for wanting more 
than 5 degrees of the Cusp of the 3rd, he is not admitted to have signification in that house. In the 
first place therefore, I find Mars in the 2nd house, and in a Northerne quarter of Heaven, (for the 
Cusp of the 4th house to the Cusp of the 5th, or Ascendant, is so, as you may see pag. 48) next I 
find Mars, who is Significator of the Party with whom she would speak with, is in Sagittarius, 
which is an Easterly Signe, (as you may see pag. 97.) 


Being Mars is not in an Angle, I say he is not at home; the 2nd house wherein he is being 
Succeedant, I say he is not far from home. 


The quarter of Heaven wherein at present he is, is North-east, for so Signe and quarter import. 


His distance from home may be a Furlong, or a Close or two, because his Significator is in a 
Succeedant house, 


The quality of the place or ground where you may expect to find him, must be judged from the 
Signe wherein Mars his Significator is, viz. Sagittarius, a Fiery Signe; what manner of place that 
signifies, see in pag. 98 , and you shall there find, it represented in the Fields, Hills, or Grounds 
that rise a little: 

so that the Party enquired after being absent, you must direct a messenger to find him, in such or 
such a Ground, or part of the Ground, as is of the nature and quality described, and butting or 


all manner or QUESTIONS 


lying to that quarter of Heaven, as is formerly directed, viz. North-east, 


But had it been so, that you were informed, the man was in a Towne, and not in the Fields, then 
enquire in the Towne neer to some Smiths or Butchers shops, or the like, being North-east from 
his house, for you may read Mars delights in such places,(see pag. 68) 


Of a Thing Suddenly Happening, Whether Good or ill, 
Resolution Thereof by the Last Figure, 


Let us admit the figure preceding to be set upon such an occasion; the Sun is the Lord of the 
Signe wherein he is; Jupiter is Lord of Pisces, the Signe wherein the Moon is, Venus is Lady of 
the Ascendant, or house of Life; Venus is most powerfull in the Ascendant, Libra being her 
house, and she having a Terme therein, and casting her Trine Sinister unto the Cusp of the house; 
as also, being in Trine with Jupiter, and he in the Ascendant; from hence one might have safely 
judged, had this been the very time of a sudden accident, or thing done, that it could not have 
redounded to the Querent’s disadvantage, but rather good: Now had Venus been neerer to the 
Opposition of Mars, he being in the 2nd , which signifies Riches, I should have judged the 
Querent would have received some losse shortly; and so of the rest or some falling out about 
Moneys. 


What Marks the Querent Had. 


I find the 25. of Libra Ascending, and Jupiter in the Ascendant; which as I aquainted you, 
signified the Face; this Querent had a Wart or Mole on the right side of her Face, neer her Mouth, 
for Jupiter is masculine, so is the Signe Libra; and as the later degrees of Libra ascend, so the 
Querent confessed a Mole on the lower part of her Reines, towards the Haunches; Aries being 
the Signe of the 6th, shewed she had one on the Fore-head, neer the Haire, for you see the Cusp 
of the house is but 4 degrees; Mars Lord or Aries, being in a Masculine Signe, viz. in Sagittarius 
but under the earth, shewed a Mole on the right Thigh, towards the middle of it, on the back part, 
or that part which is not 


The Resolution of 


visible; the Moon being in Pisces, viz. 26 degrees 43 minutes in a Feminine Signe, and under the 
earth, I told her she had one Mole under her Foot, towards the extremity of her left Foot. 


The Quesited Party being her Sonne, had Pisces in 9 degrees for his Ascendant, which denoted a 
Mole on the left side of his Cheek; and as Pisces signifies the Foot, so he had one on the left 
Foot, a little below the Ancle, for you see few degrees ascend. The 6th house from the 5th, is the 
10th in the figure, where you see Leo 4 degrees, which signified, that neer his right Side, below 
his Breast, he had some Scarre, Mole or Mark, &c. follow these Directions, and they are 
sufficient Instructions in this kind of Judgment. 


Whether One Absent be Dead or Alive, by the 
Preceding Scheame of Heaven. 


In the Figure abovesaid, let us admit the Question to have been demanded for one absent: 
The Ascendant Libra, Jupiter therein, Venus and Moon are Significators of the absent Party. 


The ascending Signe manifests his Stature, Jupiter gives comliness unto it, Venus, Jupiter and 
Moon argue his Conditions. 


Neither is the Moon or Lord of the Ascendant joyned to any Planet in the 8th by Conjunction but 
are all free from the malignant 

and aspects of the Lords of the 8th or 6th, or is the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon in 
Opposition with the Lord of the 8th. 


Or is there translation of light from the Lord of the 8th to the Lord of the Ascendant, or is the 
Lord of the 8th in the Ascendant, but a Benevolent planet, or is Moon or the Lord of the 
Ascendant in the 4th house: I should therefore pronounce the absent in health; but because Venus 
Lady of the Ascendant, had not many dayes before been in Opposition with Mars, who is Lord of 
the 2nd and 6th; I should adjudge he had been lately discontented for want of Money, and also 
inclinable to a Feaver; but by Jupiter his positure in the Ascendant, and his Trifle to Venus, I 
should judge Medicine, or such a one as Jupiter had relieved him: and because Mercury Lord of 
the 11th, applies to a 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Square of Jupiter in the Ascendant, both of them being in Signes of long ascention, which is 
equivalent to a Trine, I should judge the Querent to have newes of the absent about 10 weeks 
from the time of the Question, because Mercury wants 10 degrees of the Square of Jupiter; if the 
absent be known to be at a neer distance, I would have said in 10 days they should heare of him, 
because the Signes are moveable. 





CHAPTER XXVI. 


Of a Ship, and Whatever are in Her, 
Her Safety or Destruction. 


The Ancients do put this question to those concerning the 9th house, and I conceive for no other 
reason, than because it must be granted, that all Ships are made for travel and journeys: 

however, in regard the most part of the judgment concerning its safety or ruin is derived from the 
Ascendant and his Lord, and the Moon, I thought fit to place this judgment as belonging to the 
Ist house. 


Generally, the Signe ascending and the Moon are Significators of the Ship, and what goods are in 
her: if in the question demanded you find all these unfortunate, that is, if a malevolent Planet by 
position be placed in the Ascendant, he having dignities in the 8th; or if you find the Lord of the 
Ascendant in the 8th, in any configuration with the Lord of the 8th, 12th, 4th or 6th, or the Moon 
combust, or under the earth, you may judge the Ship is lost, and the men drowned, (unless you 
find reception betwixt themselves) for then the Ship was casually Shipwrecked, and some of the 
sea men did escape: but if you find the preceding Significators all of them free from misfortune, 
both men and goods are all safe; the more safe if any reception be. But if the Ascendant and the 
Moon be infortunate, and the Lord of the Ascendant fortunate, the Ships like to be drowned, but 
the men will be saved: Some for better knowledge and discovery of what part of the Ship was 
like to be freest from danger, have divided the several parts of the Ship, and have assigned to 
every of the 


The Resolution of 


twelve Signes, a part or place of the Ship, by which if any damage was to come to the Ship, they 
could or might better prevent it. 


Unto Aries they give the Brest of the Ship. 

To Taurus what is under the Brest a little towards the Water. 

To Gemini the Roother or Sterne of the Ship. 

To Cancer the Bottome or Floor of the Ship. 

To Leo the top of the Ship above Water. 

To Virgo the Belly of it. 

To Libra that part which sometimes is above, and sometimes below the Water, or betwixt Wind 
and Water, 

To Scorpio that part where the Seamen are lodged, or so their Office. 

To Sagittarius the Mariners themselves, 

To Capricorn the ends of the Ship. 

To Aquarius the Master or Captaine of the Ship. 

To Pisces the Oares. 


At the time when the Question is asked concerning the well or ill being of the Ship, see which of 
these Signes, or how many of them are fortunate, or hath the Moon or the Lord thereof fortunate, 
it’s an argument those parts of the Ship so signified, will have no defect, or need repaire thereof, 
or the Ship will receive any detriment in those parts: but which of these Signes you find 
unfortunate, or in what Signes you find the Moon or Lord of the Signe where she is, unfortunate, 
in that place or part of the Ship assigne impediment and misfortune, and thereof give warning. 


But when the Querent shall demand of any Ship which is setting forth, and the state of that Ship 
ere she return, and what may be hoped of her in her voyage, then behold the Angles of the 
Figure, and see if the fortunate Planets are therein posited, or falling into Angles, and the 
infortunes remote from Angles, Cadent, Combust or under the Sun Beams, then you may judge 
the Ship will goe safe to the place intended, with all the Goods and Loading in her: But if you 
find the infortunates in Angles, or Succeeding Houses, there will chance some hinderance unto 
the Ship, and it shall be in that part which the Signe signifies where the unfortunate Planet is; if 
the same infortunate be Saturn, the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Ship will be split, and all the men drowned, or receive hurt by some bruise, or running a ground: 
but if it be Mars, and he in any of his Essentiall Dignities, or behold a place where he hath any 
Dignity or be in an Earthly Signe, he shall then signify the same which Saturn did, or very great 
danger and damage to the Ship: But if the Fortunes cast their benevolent rayes or aspect to the 
places where Mars or Saturn are, and the Lords of the four Angles of the Figure, and especially, 
or more properly, the Ascendant, and the Lord of that house or Signe where the Moon is in be 
free, then it’s an argument, the Ship shall labor hard, and suffer much damage, yet 
notwithstanding the greater part both of Goods and Men shall be preserved. But if Mars does 
afflict the Lords of the Angles, the Dispositor of the Moon; the Mariners will be in great fear of 
their enemies, or of Pyrates or Sea-robbers, shall even tremble from feare of them: and if there 
also unto this evill configuration chance any other affliction in the Signes, there will happen 
among the Mariners Blood-shed, Controversies, quarrelling one with another, theeving and 
robbing each other, purloyning the Goods of the Ship; and this judgment will prove more 
certaine if the unfortunate Planets be in the Signes which fall to be in the Division of the upper 
part of the Ship, towards the height or top of her. 


If Saturn in the like nature doe afflict, as was before recited of Mars, there will be many thefts 
committed in the Ship, but no bloodshed; the Goods of the Ship consume, no body knowing 
which way. 


If the unfortunate Signes (viz. those which are afflicted by the presence of Saturn or South Node) 
be those which signifie the bottome or that part of the Ship which is under Water, it’s an 
argument of the breaking and drowning thereof, or receiving some dangerous Leak: if the Signes 
so unfortunate be in the Midheaven, and Mars unfortunating them, it’s like the Ship will be 
burned by fire, thunder or lightning, or matter falling out of the Aire into the Ship; this shall then 
take place when the Signes are Fiery, and near violent fixed Stars. 


If that Signe wherein Mars or the unfortunate Planet be the Signe of the 4th house, it notes firing 
of the Ship in the bottome of her; but if Mars be there, and the Signe humane, viz. either 


The Resolution of 


Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, that fire or burning of the Ship shall proceed from a fight with 
Enemies, or they shall cast into her or shall teare the Ship in pieces in grapling with her, and the 
fire shall in that part of the Ship first take hold, signified by the Signe wherein an Infortunate was 
at time of asking the Question. 


If Saturn instead of Mars does denunciate dammage, and be placed in the Mid-heaven, the Ship 
shall receive prejudice by contrary Winds, and by leaks in the Ship, by rending or using of bad 
sailes; and this misfortune shall be greater or lesser, according to the potency of the Significator 
of that misfortune, and remotenesse of the Fortunes. 


If the same Infortune be in the 7th house, and he be Saturn, the latter part of the Ship will be in 
danger of misfortune, and the Sterne of the Ship will be broke. 


Moreover, if any infortune be in the Ascendant, some losse will be in the fore-part of the Ship, 
greater of lesse, according to the quality or strength of the Significator thereof; or if the Lord of 
the Ascendant be Retrograde, the Ship will proceed forward a while, but either returne or put into 
some harbor within a little time after her setting forth; and if the Lord of the Ascendant be in a 
Moveable Signe and Retrograde, and the Lord of the 4th also, viz. Retrograde, the Ship will 
returne againe crossed by contrary Winds, to the very Port from which she first set out: and if the 
Lord of the Ascendant have no other impediments than Retrogradation, there will be no losse by 
the returne of it; but if to Retrogradation some other misfortune happen, the Ship returnes to 
amend something amisse, and was also in danger. 


Besides, if the Lord of the 8th shall infortunate the Lord of the Ascendant, especially if the Lord 
of the Ascendant be in the 8th, there will come hurt to the Ship according to the nature of the 
Planet afflicting: as if the same Planet that is Lord of the 8th house doe impedite the Lord of the 
house of the Moon, the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon, it imports the death of the Master 
or Governour of the Ship, and of his Mate and principall Officers of the Ship: and if the Part of 
Fortune and the Lord of the 2nd house be unfortunate, it pronounceth losse in sale of those 
Goods in the Ship, or ill venting of them, or that they will not come 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


to a good market; but if either North Node, Jupiter or Venus be in the 2nd house, or Lord thereof, 
or Dispositors of the Signe the Part Of Fortune is in, there will be good profits from the Voyage 
of that Ship, and sale of Goods therein the more the Significators are essentially strong, the more 
profit may be expected. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the house of the Moon be slow of course, and those 
Planets that dispose of them, then it’s probable the Ship will be slow in her motion, and make a 
long Voyage of it: but if the aforesaid Significators be quick in motion, the Ship shall make good 
speed to the Port intended, and will returne home again in shorter time then is expected. 


And if it happen that there be an Opposition or Square aspect betwixt the Lord of the Ascendant 
and the Lord of that Signe who disposeth the Moon, and this aspect be without reception, then 
will there be much discord among the Saylors, and much controversie betwixt the Merchant and 
them; wherein, he shall prevaile that is most dignified; that is, the Sea-men if the Lord of the 
Ascendant be strongest; the Merchant, if the Lord of the house where the Moon is be best 
fortified. 


If the lord of the 2nd be removed from his 2nd (that is, if Taurus be the cusp of the 2nd, and 
Venus further removed then Gemini) or if the Lord of the 2nd be removed from the 2nd house 
wherein the Moon is in, (as if she be in Virgo, and the Lord of the 2nd not in Libra, or if the 
Disposer of the Part Of Fortune be not with it, then the Ship-men will have scarsity of Provisions 
of Victuals and Food: if these Planets or Part Of Fortune be in Watry Signes, want of fresh water 
will most annoy the Saylors: if the Significators be in Earthly or Airey Signes, want of Food, 
Victuals and Fire will oppresse them: This is the manner by which the Ancients did judge of the 
good or ill successe of a Ship, concerning her Voyage at her first going forth. 


The Resolution of 





An Example of A Ship At Sea. 


In December 1644, a Merchant in London having sent out a Ship to the coast of Spaine for 
Trade, had severall times newes that his Ship was lost or cast away, there having been a little 
before very Tempestuous weather, in so much that many Shipps were sunk and Shipwrackt; he 
would have given 60 in the hundred for the assurance of her; but so generall was the report of her 
losse, that none of the Ensurance company would meddle, no not upon any termes. A Friend of 
the Merchants propounds the Question unto me, What I thought of the Ship, if sunk or living? 
whereupon I erected the Figure preceding, and having well considered what was requisite in this 
manner of Judgment, I gave my Opinion. That the Ship was not lost, but did live, and though of 
late in some danger, yet was now recovered... My Judgment was grounded upon the 
Considerations in Art following.. 


In the first place, the Ascendant being the 11 degree and 33 minute of Cancer, showed the Bulk 
or Body of the Ship; there doth also ascend with these degrees of Cancer 3 Fixed Starres in our 
Horizon, wholly almost of the nature of Saturn: I find Saturn castest his Square Sinister out of 
the 11th house, but from a Cardinall Signe to, or very neer the Cusp of the ascending degrees, 
thereby afflicting it: after his Square aspect, I found the Moon in her Exaltation, casting a Sextile 
Sinister to the degree ascending, interposing her Sextile betwixt the Ascendant and the 
Opposition of Mercury and Sun in the 7th, which otherwise had been dangerous, for all opposite 
aspects to the Ascendant in this Judgment are dangerous. 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


From the Ascendants affliction both by the Square of Saturn, and presence of fixed Stars of his 
like nature, I judged the Ship was much of the nature of Saturn, viz. a sluggish, heavy one, and of 
no good speed, or very sound; and Cancer being a weakly Signe, made me judge the condition, 
building and quality of the Ship was such; (and it was so confessed.) 


From hence, and for that South Node is in the 9th house, I judged the Ship had been in some 
affliction or distresse in her journey, occasioned from such casualties as are signified by Saturn, 
viz. had received some such casualties as are signified by Saturn, viz. had received some bruise, 
leak, dammage in or neer her Brest; because Aries, the Signe wherein Saturn is, represents that 
part, thereby afflicting it. 


But in regard the Moon, who is Lady of the Ascendant, is posited in the 11th house, and in her 
Exaltation, is no manner of way impedited, but by a benevolent aspect applying to a Trine of 
Mercury and Sun, and is by bodily presence so neer unto Jupiter, and all the Significators above 
the Earth, (a thing very considerable in this Judgment.) 


Besides, I observed no Infortunes in Angles, which was one other good argument; for these 
considerations, I judged the Ship was not cast away, but living, and that the Saylors and Officers 
of the Ship were lively and in good condition. 


The next quere was, Where the Ship was, upon what Coast, and when any newes would come of 
her? 


Herein I considered the Moon was fixed, and locally in the 11th house; Taurus is a Southerne 
Signe, but in an East quarter of Heaven, verging towards the South: her application to a Trine of 
Mercury, and he in Capricorn, a South Signe and West Angle, made me judge the Ship was 
South-west from London, and upon our own Coast, or neer those which lye betwixt Ireland and 
Wales; I judged her at that time to be in some Harbor, because Taurus wherein the Moon is, is 
fixed, and in the 11th house, which is the house of Comfort and Relief; and that she was put into 
some Harbor to mend her Defects or Rents:(It proved true that she was in the West, and in an 
Harbor.) 


Because the Moon applyed to a Trine of Mercury and Sun, and they in an Angle, and was her 
selfe as well as they, very swift in motion and did want but a few minutes of their perfect Trine; I 


The Resolution of 


judged there would be newes or Letters, or a certaine discovery of the Ship in a very short time; 
the Significators so neer aspect, I said either that night, or in 2 days; (and so it proved:) And you 
must observe, that it gave me good encouragement when I saw Part Of Fortune Disposed by 
Mars, and Mercury to whom the Moon applyed to be in reception with Mars: as also, that the 
Moon, by so forcible an aspect, did apply to the Sun, who is Lord of the 2nd house, or of 
Substance, an argument, the Merchant should encrease his Stock, and not lose by that adventure: 
You shall also observe, that Jupiter has his Antiscion in the 9th of Leo, the very Cusp of the 2nd 
house, and Mars his Antiscion fals upon the very degree ascending: these were good testimonies 
of safety: Mars as being Lord of the 11th, and Dispositor of Part Of Fortune; and Jupiter as Lord 
of the 10th, viz. of Trade and Commerce. 


Besides, usually when the Moon applies to a good aspect of a Retrograde Planet, it brings the 
matter to an end one way or another speedily, and when least suspected: and it’s a generall 
Maxime in such like cases, if the Moon apply to the Fortunes, or by good aspect to any Planet or 
Planets in Angles, then there is reason we hope well, etc. 


The Ascendant free from presence of Infortunes, a good sign: Lord of the Ascendant above the 
Earth, and the Moon and their Dispositors, good signes: Lord of the Ascendant in 10th, 11th 
or 9th houses, good: Lord of the Ascendant in Trine or Sextile with Jupiter or Lord of the 11th, 
good. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Pp! ot Sea 
ica dite 





Example of another Ship. 


Here the Ascendant and the Moon are Significators of the Shippe, and those that saile in her: the 
Moon lately separated from a Square of Saturn, Lord of the 8th and 9th, then at time of the 
question voyd of course; but afterwards Ist applyed to a Trine of Saturn, then to Opposition of 
Mercury, Lord of the 12th and 4th; this shewed the Ship had lately been in danger (of Death) viz. 
Shipwrack: and as the Moon had been voyd of course, so had no newes been heard of her; 
because the Moon was last in Square of Saturn, in fixed Signes, tortuous or odiously and 
malitiously aspecting each other, and falling into Cadent houses, and then did not presently apply 
to the good aspect of any benevolent Planet, but was voyd of course, and then againe continued 
her application out of the 4th to Saturn, who is still Lord of the 8th, although it was by good 
aspect; and then after seperation from him, applyed to Opposition Mercury, and that Mercury her 
Dispositor was in Detriment, and entering Combustion, and Jupiter Dispositor of Mercury 
Subterranean and in Conjunction with Mars, and termes of an Infortune; and forasmuch as I 
found Mars in his Fall, upon or neer the Cusp of the 2nd house, I judged losse was at hand to the 
Merchant; Part Of Fortune being in the 6th house, disposed by Jupiter, and he Retrograde in the 
2nd, not beholding Part Of Fortune; the Moon also casting her Square Sinister to the Part Of 
Fortune, and so Mercury his Dexter Square: by meanes therefore of so many evill testimonies of 
receiving losse rather than benefit; I judged that the Merchant should lose much, if not all that 
was adventured in this Ship, and so consequently I doubted the Ship was cast away; (and so it 
proved.) 


Principal Significators under the Earth, ill: worst of all, if in the 4th, for that is an assured 
testimony of sinking the Ship. 


The Resolution of 


Of the Time of Receiving any QUESTION. 


it hath been disputed largely amongst the Arabians, who were excellent in the resolution of 
Horary Questions, what time the Astrologer should take for the ground of his Question, whether 
that time when the Querent first comes into ones House or Closet, or first salutes the Artist, 
whether that is to be admitted for the most proper time of erecting a Figure, and giving Judgment 
thereupon. 


Though some have consented to this opinion, yet I could never be satisfied herein either with 
reason or experience; for let us admit one comes to demand a Resolution of me, and we converse 
together a good while; but in the end, some occasion intervenes, and we depart: I hope no sound 
Judgment will allow of this time to be the Radix of a Question (whenas none is really demanded) 
viz. at what time he first saw me, or entered my house and spake with me. 


Without doubt the true houre of receiving any Question is then, when the Querent propounds his 
desire unto the Astrologer, even that very moment of time, in my opinion, is to be accepted: for 
let us suppose a Letter is sent or delivered unto me, wherein I am desired to resolve some doubts; 
perhaps I receive the Letter into my hands at 3:00 in any day of the week, but in regard of some 
occassions, doe not read it untill 4 or 5 hours after; that very hour and minute of hour when I 
break it open, and perceive the intention of the Querent, is the time to which I ought to erect my 
Figure, and from thence to draw mine Astrological 

Judgment: This way and manner have I practiced, and found successe answerable: And whereas 
Bonatus and some others doe give warning that the Astrologian judge not his owne Question, and 
say he cannot tell how to accept of a question from himselfe; this I conceive was his reason, 
Because he thought the Artist would be partiall to himselfe in his judgment: Verily I am of a 
contrary opinion and have found by many experiments, that at what 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


hour the mind or intention of the Astrologer is heavily perplexed with or concerning the successe 
of any matter wherein himselfe is really concerned, I say he may with great reason accept of that 
hour for the true time of erecting his Scheame of Heaven, and he may (if not partiall) as well 
judge of that Figure erected by himselfe, as of any other; but herein I advise him to lay aside all 
love and partiality unto his owne Cause. 


JUDGMENTS CONCERNING THE 2ND HOUSE. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 


Whether the Querent Shall be Rich, or Have a Competent 
Fortune? By What Meanes Attaine it? The Time When? Etc. 
And if it Shall Continue? 


Whoever interrogates, be his Condition what it will be, King, Noble, Priest or Layman, the 
Ascendant, the Lord thereof and the Moon are his Significators: and if the question be in generall 
termes, (viz. Whether he shall ever be rich yea or not?) without relation to any particular person 
from whom he may expect a Fortune, the resolution of it is in this nature: 


Consider the Signe ascending on the Cusp of the 2nd House, the Lord thereof, the Planet or 
Planets therein posited, or aspecting the Lord of that house or Cuspe thereof; the Part Of Fortune, 
the Signe and place of Heaven where it is placed and how aspected by the Planets, (for Part Of 
Fortune it selfe emitteth no rayes, or casteth any aspect to any Planet, no more doe the North 
Node or South Node.) 


First, if you find the Planets all angular, it’s one good Signe of Substance; if they be in 
succeedant houses, direct and swift in motion, it’s a good Signe. 


If Planets be in good houses, direct, and but moderately 


The Resolution of 


dignified in essentiall Dignities, it’s an hopefull argument of an Estate: Those rules are generall: 


If the Lord of the Ascendant, or the Moon, and the Lord of the 2nd house, viz. of Substance, be 
corporally joyned together, or if they, viz. Lord of the Ascendant and Moon, have friendly 
aspects to the Lord of the 2nd, or if Jupiter and Venus cast their Trine or Sextile, or be in 
Conjunction with Part Of Fortune, or if the Lord of the 2nd be in the Ascendant, or the Moon, or 
Lord of the Ascendant in the 2nd, or if any Planet transfer the light and vertue of the Lord of the 
2nd to the Lord of the Ascendant, or if benevolent Planets cast their Sextile or Trine to the Cuspe 
of the Ascendant or Part Of Fortune, or any fixed Starre of the nature of Jupiter and Venus, doe 
ascend with the Cuspe of the 2nd or Part Of Fortune be in Conjunction with or neer to such a 
fixed Starre; or if Jupiter who is naturall Significator of substance, or Venus who is naturally a 
fortune or North Node be in the 2nd, and no infortune cast his aspect unto them, or if you finde 
all Planets direct and swift in motion (viz.) if their daily motion be more then what is assigned 
for their meane or middle motion, which you may perceive by page 

57.61.65.69.72.76.80. The Querent shall not feare poverty, for he will be competently rich or 
have a sufficient fortune to subsist on, and this his estate shall be greater or lesser according to 
the Major testimonies, which you are carefully to examine of those Significators which doe 
naturally resolve the question; and here in this demand you must remember to take notice of the 
quality of the person inquiring or demanding the question, for (Quoad capax) it shall happen to 
any Interrogant. 


By What Means Attain It. 


When you have sufficiently examined your Figure, and perceived that the Querent shall have a 
substance or will come to have riches, it will be demanded, how? by whom, or what meanes it 
may be obtained? 


Herein you must observe, that if the Lord of the 2nd House be in the 2nd, the querent shall obtain 
an Estate by his owne labour and proper industry; if the Lord of the 2nd be placed in the 
Ascendant, he shall unexpectedly come to a Fortune or without 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


much labour attaine it. If that the Lord of the 2nd or the Moon do promise substance by any 
aspect they have to each other, you must consider from what House the aspect is, or what House 
the Moon is Lady of, or if neither of these promise substance; see to the Part Of Fortune, what 
house it is in, and what House of Heaven the Dispositor is Lord of. 


If the Planet assisting or promising encrease of Fortune be Lord of the Ascendant, the Querent 
himself will by his owne diligence advance his owne Fortune; if he be a meane man or 
Mechanicall that interrogates, then by the sweat and labour of his owne hands, his owne 
Invention, Care and Pains, no King shall put him into a fortune: But if the Adjuvant Planet be 
Lord of the 2nd, he will augment his Estate by advance of his owne Stock, and well managing 
his private Fortune, and adventuring to Buy and Sell in such things as naturally he is addicted 
unto, or fals in his way in the course of his life, or are of the nature of that Planet (the Signe he is 
in considered.) 


If the Lord of the 3rd fortunate the Lord of the 2nd, or the Cuspe of the House, or Part Of 
Fortune, he will be assisted in procuring an Estate by some honest Neighbour, or some one of his 
Kindred, Brethern or Sisters, if he have any, or by some Journey he shall undertake, or removing 
to that quarter of Heaven from whence the Lord of the 3rd calls his good aspect, or is corporally 
joined with the Significator of Substance. 


If the fortunate Planet or significator be Lord of the 4th or placed in the 4th, the Querent will 
attaine Wealth by means of his Fathers assistance, (if he be living) or by some aged person, as 
Grandfather, etc. or by taking some Farme or Grounds, or purchase of Tenements, Lands or 
Hereditaments, or well managing the Stock his Ancestors have or shall leave him, or some Stock 
of Money his Kindred may lend him. 


If the Lord of the 5th doe promise Wealth, then he obtaines meanes: if a Gentleman (by Play, 
Cards, Dice, Sports, Pastimes) if of Capacity, and a Courtier, by some Embassage, Message, etc. 
If an ordinary man propounds the question, by keeping a Victualling-house, as Ale-house, Inne, 
Taverne, Bowling alley, or being a Door-keeper, Porter to some Gentleman; or be he who 


The Resolution of 


will that enquires, if the Lord of the 5th House be strong, he promises somewhat out of the Estate 
of the Father, or by making Matches, etc.. 


If the Lord of the 6th, or Significator, or assistant Planet be in the 6th, and the Signe of the 6th be 
humane, the Querent may expect good Servants, and profit by their labours: If a King or Prince 
propounds the Question (as sometimes they doe) you may judge, his Subjects will assist him 
with many tumbling Subsidies, Privy-Seales, Loans of Money, etc.. 


If a Nobleman or Gentleman enquire, he shall augment his Estate by Letting Leases, and the 
discreet managing of his Estate by his Stewards, Bailiffs, and such as undertake for him.. 


If the question come from a Country-man, as a Farmer or Husband-man, tell him he may thrive 
by dealing in little Cattle, as Sheep, Goats, Hogs, Conies, etc.. 


If a Scholler propound the Question upon the like occasion, advise him to turne Physician, for he 
shall thrive by his Salary obtained from people infirme and diseased.. 


If the Lord of the 7th House fortunate the Lord of the 2nd House, or the Cuspe of the House, or 
the Part Of Fortune, or that Planet which is posited in the 2nd, let the Querent expect God’s 
Blessing, by meanes of a rich and good Wife, or the assistance of some loving Woman: As also, 
if a Gentleman propounds the Question, then by the Sword, or the Wars, or by Law recovering 
somewhat detained from him, by contracting of Bargains, by the common aquaintance he hath in 
his way of Trade or Commerce, if he be a Merchant.. 


If the Lord of the 8th be that Planet who fortunates the Significators above named; the Querent 
shall either have some Legacy bequeathed him by Testament of deceased party, or a further 
increase of his Wife’s Portion, little by him expected at time of his Question, or shall goe 
uncompelled, and reside in some Country, where increase of substance shall happen unto 
him,viz.. he shall unexpectedly settle himselfe where formerly he had no intention, and there 
shall thrive and grow rich.. 


If the Lord of the 9th gives vertue or fortunate the Part Of Fortune or Lord of the 2nd, or Cuspe 
of the House, the Querent 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


may thrive by some Voyage to Sea, if Cancer or Pisces descend on the Cuspe of the 9th, and the 
Lord of the same Signe be therein, or one of his Wife’s Brothers, or some allied unto her, or neer 
Nighbour, or the place where she did live when he first married her, of some religious man or 
Minister shall befriend him in the way of his Vocation or Calling, for the increase of his Fortune.. 


If an Earth Signe be on the Cuspe of the 9th, and the Lord of that House be therein posited, he 
may thrive by removing to that part of Heaven, or that Coast of the Kingdom or Country 
signified by the Signe and quarter of Heaven, and by dealing in the native Commodities of that 
County, City or Country to which the Heavens direct him.. 


If the Lord of the 2nd be fortunate in the 10th House, or the Lord of the 10th and 2nd be in 
reception, or the Lord of the 10th doe behold the Lord of the 2nd or Cuspe of the 2nd House, or a 
Planet therein, or the Part Of Fortune, with any benevolent configuration; let the Querent try the 
service or employment of some King, Prince, Nobleman, Gentleman, Master, or the like, and 
thereby he shall augment his estate or get a subsistence: if one inquires that is young and of small 
fortune, let him learne a Mechanicall trade, according to the nature of the Signe of the 10th and 
Planet who is Lord therof; for the Heavens intimate he shall doe well in his Magistery or Trade, 
if he be capable and fit for it; or if he be a man of any education and desirous of preferment, let 
him expect an Office or Publique imployment in the Common-wealth, in one kinde or other.. 


If the Lord of the 11th be that benevolent Planet who is Significator in the premises, viz. the 
Planet fortunating, then some friend shall commend the party inquiring to accept of some 
imployment very advantagious, or some Merchant, Courtier, or servant of a Nobleman, King, or 
great person shall be the meanes of raising the Querent to a Fortune, and then, shall unexpectedly 
happen unto the Querent which he never thought of: and this for good.. 


If the Fortunate Planet, who casts his Aspect as aforesaid, be in the 12th, the Querent shall 
advance his Fortune by great Cattle, Horse-races, by imprisonments, or men imprisoned, if the 
Signe of 


The Resolution of 


the 12th be humain; if the Signe be Taurus or Capricorn or Aries by Cattle; if Virgo by Corn. And 
herein mix your judgment with reason.. 


The most assured testimony in Astrology, and upon a Question onely propounded, that the 
Querent shall be rich and continue so, is this, if the Lord of the 1st and 2nd and Jupiter be joyned 
together in the 2nd House, Ist, 10th, 7th, 4th or 11th; but if they be not in Conjunction, then that 
they apply by Sextile or Trine with Mutual Reception: nay, although they apply by Square or 
Opposition, yet if it be with reception, the party will thrive or have an estate, though with much 
labour, and many intervening difficulties, yet will he ever more abound then want.. 


Of the Reason, or from whence it proceeds, or what is the 
Cause, why the Querent shall not obtaine Wealth. 


When in any question you find your Figure signifies the Querent shall come to an estate, the 
resolution following is needlesse; but if you find that he shall not obtaine any great fortune, and 
the Interrogant would know the cause why, or thing impediting, that so he may the better direct 
his affaires, and be more wary in the course of his life, for better prevention of such difficulties: 
In this Judgment carefully observe the Planet obstructing, or who doth most afflict the Lord of 
the 2nd, or Part Of Fortune, or the Cuspe of the 2nd, the Moon, or Lord of Dispositor of the Part 
Of Fortune; if the Lord of the Ist be that Planet, then the Querent himselfe is the cause; if the 
Lord of the 2nd doe with Square or Opposition behold the Part Of Fortune, or the Cuspe of the 
2nd, then want of money or a sufficient Stock to set himselfe in imployment is the cause: If Lord 
of the 3rd, his own Kindred will doe nothing for him, or will prove burdensome, or malicious 
Neighbours will get all the Trade from him, or so under-sell him, that he will be much kept under 
thereby: and so run through the 12 Houses, as in the Chapter mentioned before. I thought good 
here to give this generall caution, that if the Lord of the 2nd House, or Dispositor of the Part Of 
Fortune be infortunes, yet if they have Essentiall Dignities where they are, or aspects to good 
Planets, or be placed in such benelovent Houses as I formerly mentioned, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


they may be Significators of position of Substance; and in like nature both Jupiter and Venus 
being afflicted or impedited, or Significators, as aforesaid, may be the Planets obstructing as well 
as any other, for every Planet must do the work for which he is by divine Providence assigned 
unto: Doe you also ever remember that in what House you can find Cauda Draconis, it prenotes 
detriment and impediment in such things as are signified by that House, as if he be in the 2nd, he 
denotes consumption of Estate by the Querent’s own folly or not thriving, by his owne proper 
neglect: in the 3rd, hinderance by evill, beggarly or peevish Kindred, etc.., and so judge in all the 
rest of the 12 Houses - 


If the Querent shall obtaine the Substance which he demands, 
or hath lent, or the Goods he hath pawned. 


If the demand of the Querent be, Whether or no he shall procure the money or substance from 
him of whom he intends to demand it? 


The Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon are his Significators, the Lord of the 2nd House of his 
substance. 


The 7th House, and the Lord thereof signify him or her of whom he intends to demand or borrow 
Money: In proceeding to Judgment, 


See if the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 8th, who is Lord of the 
Substance of the party quesited after, or see if either of them joyned, or in aspect to a Planet 
posited in the 8th; if the Planet in the 8th be a fortunate, or the aspect itself fortunate, he shall 
obtaine the money desired; or if he would borrow the money required will be lent him: if he have 
deposited any Pledge, it will be restored, whether the fortunate Planet in the 8th be received or 
not; yea, if an infortunate Planet in the 8th, or Lord of the 8th, and receive either the Lord of the 
Ascendant or the Moon, the Querent shall obtaine his desire; but if no reception be, he will 
hardly or ever procure his demands, and if ever, with so much difficulty and labour, as he would 
rather wish the thing had been undone.. 


In like manner, if the Lord of the 8th be in the Ist, or in the 


The Resolution of 


2nd, and the Lord of the 2nd receive him, it’s probable the businesse will be effected; but is the 
Lord of the 7th, or of the 8th be in the Ist or 2nd, and neither have reception of the Lord of the 
Ist or 2nd House, or of the Moon, it’s an argument he shall not have his desire accomplished, but 
shall receive a deniall or more prejudice in the thing demanded. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon be joined to a Fortune that has Dignity in the Signe 
ascending, or Signe intercepted in the Ascendant, the matter will be effected; or if any of them be 
joyned to an Infortune who hath dignity in the Ascendant, and that Infortune receive the Lord of 
the Ascendant or the Moon, the business will be dispatched: Or if the Lord of the Ascendant or 
the Moon be joyned to a fortunate Planet, and he well placed either in the 10th or 11th, the matter 
shall be perfected, though there be no reception: The Judgments of this Chapter shall have place 
and prove true, when as the matter in question is amongst ordinary persons, or with such people 
as with whom there is a community, as Citizens with Citizens, Countrymen with Countrymen, 
one Tradesman with another; from this Judgment we exempt Kings, Princes, Noblemen and 
such, who pay Debts slowly, and on whom the Law takes little notice.. 


If one shall aquire that Gaine or Profit, Wages or Stripend 
of the King or Nobleman, Generall or Common-wealth, 
Lieutenant-Generall, or any great Person 
which be Expects. 


The resolution hereof will serve for any question of the like nature, where the Querent is much 
inferior to the Quesited, or the party or parties from whom he expects the accomplishment of his 
desires.. 


The Ascendant, Lord thereof and the Moon signifie him that askes the Question; the 10th House 
and Lord thereof, signifie the Quisited, or person sought after, or from whom the matter is to be 
required; the 2nd House and the Lord thereof are to be considered for the Querent, the 11th 
House and Lord thereof shall 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


signifie the Estate, Money or Substance of the King, Nobleman, Generall etc., or Party enquired 
after: If in the Question you doe find the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon joyned to the Lord 
of the 11th House, or if any of them be joyned to any Planet in the 11th House, and that Planet be 
a Fortune, not in any measure impedited, or ill disposed, then you may affirme that the Querent 
shall obtaine what Salary, wages, debt or money the great person of what quality soever owes 
unto him; or if it happen that the Moon and the Lord of the Ascendant be joyned to an 
unfortunate Planet, and he receive them into some of his essentiall dignities, the Querent shall 
obtaine his Money, Wages, etc., but not without much solicitation, many weary addresses, feares 
and distrusts; if it happen any Aspect be betwixt the Significators, the one being an infortune and 
without reception, the Querent will never obtaine what he desires. In this manner of Judgment be 
very careful to observe the Planets true essentiall dignities, and their mutual receptions, and by 
which of their mutuall dignities they receive each other. 


Of the time when the aforesaid accidents treated of in 
this Chapter may happen. 


Herein you must diligently observe unto what Planet either the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon 
applyes unto, or is joyned by body., and doth signifie the effecting and performance of the matter 
quesited after, for if that Planet be in Sextile or Trine with the Lord of the Ascendant or the 
Moon, whether he be a Fortune or not, or receive the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon or not; 
consider well how both of them project their beames or rayes to each other, until they come to 
their perfect aspect, or see how many degrees at the time of the Question asking, they want of 
being in true Partill aspect or Conjunct, and you may answer that it shall be so many dayes as are 
the number of degrees betwixt the Significators, if they be both in Cadent Houses: if they be in 
Succeedant Houses of Heaven, it will be so many weeks; if in Angles, the time will be so many 
moneths: But here the Astrologer must use discretion, and consider if it be possible that the 
matter enquired of may be effected in dayes, weeks or 


The Resolution of 


moneths; for if it be a businesse that may require much time, instead of moneths you may adde 
yeers, and this especially if the Lord of the Ascendant, and the Moon and other Significators be 
in Angles; but if one Planet be in an Angle, and the other in Succeedant, then they shall signifie 
Moneths; if one be in Succeedant and the other in a Cadent , then they shall denote weeks; but if 
one be in an Angle, and the other in a Cadent House, they prenote moneths. 


Some of the Ancients have said, that if at the Houre of the Question the Planet which signifies 
the perfection of the thing demanded be in one Signe with the Lord of the Ascendant, the matter 
shall then be brought to conclusion when that Planet and the Lord of the Ascendant come to 
corporall Conjunction in Degrees and Minutes, if the Lord of the Ascendant be the more 
ponderous Planet, or weather there be reception yea or not; but if the Lord of the Ascendant be 
the more light Planet, so that he make haste to the conjunction of the Planet signifying the 
effecting of the matter, and that Planet receive the Lord of the Ascendant, the matter will be 
finished. But if that Planet shall not receive the Lord of the Ascendant, then the matter will not be 
effected, unlesse the foresaid significators be in an Angle when the Conjunction shall be, or in 
one of his owne Houses, and especially in that House which is called his joy; as Aquarius is the 
joy of Saturn, Sagittarius of Jupiter, Scorpio of Mars, Libra of Venus, Virgo of Mercury. What I 
have observed in resolving Questions of this nature, is this, that single reception by exaltation 
without other testimonies profiteth not; that reception by essential dignities of House, when 
benevolent Planets are significators, though by Square or Opposition do usually shew perfection, 
yea beyond exception, and therefore very certainly when by Sextile or Trine aspect it so fals out, 


And “for the time when”, I observe, if a fortune, or the Moon or Lord of the thing quesited be in 
the Ascendant, and have any essentiall dignity therein, the number of Degrees betwixt the Cuspe 
of the Ascendant and the body of the Planet, doth denote the time when, dayes if a moveable 
Signe, and the businesse capable of being perfected in dayes, moneths or yeers, according to the 
Signe, its quality and nature of the businesse. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


A Tradesman of this City in the yeer 1634: propounded these severall Demands unto me: 
because I have seen the experience of my Judgment, and his Queries were pertinent for 
Resolutions of the Demands of this 2nd House; I have inferred his severall Queries, with the 
Reasons in Art of my so judging them. His Queries were; 


1.If he should be rich, or subsist of himselfe without marriage? 
2.By what meanes he should attain wealth? 

3. The time when? 

4.If it would continue? 





Iyits :diei 8 4 


‘Hor -.astayy 


(ac’s ade79 





The Resolution of 


CHAPTER XXVIII. 


If the Querent Shall be Rich or Poor. 


It’s first necessary for more exact judgments in this question, that you examine the Diurnall 
motion of the Planets, which I finde here to be as followeth: 


Viz. Saturn moveth in 24 houres, 2 minutes: and is therfore slow in motion. 

Jupiter 13 min. Ergo, he moveth more in 24 houres, than his middle or meane motion: which is 4 
min. 59 sec. is reputed swift, as you may see fol. 61. 

The Diurnall motion of Mars is 35 min. this being more than his middle or meane motion, which 
you see in page 65., is 30 min. 27 sec. He is reputed swift. 

Diurnall motion of the Sun 57 min. 00 sec. being lesse then his mean motion; he is slow. 


Of Venus 1 degr. 13 min. very swift 
Of Mars 1 degr. 44 min more swift 
Of Moon 11 degr. 54 min. slow 


In the next place I am to examine the fortitudes and delibities of the Planets: by the Table of 
essentiall dignities, page 104, and the other Table of Page 115. I doe this more willingly that 
young Learners may better understand the use of both these Tables, which they will frequently 
have occasion to use, 


True place of Saturn is 15.19 Sagittarius, Essentiall dignities he hath none in that degree of 
Sagittarius, where he is, as you may observe by the Table of essentiall dignities, page 104. 


Saturn—His Accidentaial Dignities Saturn—His Debilities 


In the 3 House Peregrine 


Free from Combustion Retrograde 
Slow in Motion 
Occidentall 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Jupiter- His Fortitudes 


In Exaltation 

In the 10th house 
Direct 

Swift in Motion 

Free from Combustion 


Mars In Those Degrees of Libra 


he is in, has no Essentiall 
Dignities. 


His Accidentall Fortitudes 
In the Asc. 

Direct 

Swift in Motion 

Free from Combustion 

In Conjunct. with Spica 
Virgo, or within 5 deg. 


SUN 

His Fortitudes, Essentiall and 
Accidentall 

In his owne house 

In Mid-heaven 


VENUS 

Her Fortitudes 

In the 11th house 
Direct 

Swift in Motion 
Occidentall of Sun 
Free from Combustion 
Conjunct with Regulus, 
viz. within 6 degrees. 


He has no Debilities, 
either Accidentall or 
Essentiall, yet some 
Detriment it is unto him, 
being in Square with Mars, 
though the aspect be 
Platick. 


Mars--Debilities 


Debilities 

In Detriment 
Peregrine 
Occidentall of 
the Sun 


Debilities 
Slow in motion 


Debilities of Venus 
Peregrine 


2S 
5 





MERCURY—His Fortitudes Debilities 


In the 10th house Peregrine 
Direct 

Swift in motion 

Occidentall 

Free from Combustion 


MOON—Her Fortitudes Debilities 


In the 10th house Slow in Motion 


Increasing in Light Peregrine 
Free from Combustion 





Part of Fortune as you may observe, page 145, in Scorpio hath 5 Debilities, and as it is placed in 
our Figure, shall rather be admitted to be in the 2nd house, then in the Ist; and hath therefore but 
3 testimonies of strength, which taken from 5 Debilities, Part Of Fortune is found weak by 2 
testimonies: and though Part Of Fortune is some minutes more than 5 degrees removed from the 
Cusp of the 2nd, yet were it absurd to think it had signification in the Ist. 


The Testimonies of all the Planets Collected 
Into One, Stand Thus. 


Saturn Weak by testimonies 8 therefore Unfortunate 

Jupiter Hath Fortitudes 20 no imbecillity 

Mars Strong as having 9  Dignities: 
(Disabilities 
subtracted from 
Fortitudes. 

Sun Hath Dignities 8 0 

Venus 18 O 

Mercury 13. (O 

Moon Hath 0 

Part of 


Fortune Hath Disibilities 2 0 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


you must ever consider, whether your Planet have more Fortitudes or Debilities, and having 
subtracted the lesser number from the greater, make use of what remaines, whether they be 
Fortitudes or Debilities, and so judge. 


The Antiscions of the Planets 


Contrantiscions 


Saturn in : Saturn in 14 41 Can. 
Jupiter : Jupiter 12 29 Sag 
Mars Sag.. 
Sun ‘ Mars 13 48 Vir. 
Venus : Vir.. 
Mercury : Sun 26 50 Sco. 


Moon : Sco.. 
Venus 4 26 Sco. 

Sco... 
Mercury 12 15 Sco. 

Sco.. 
Moon 10 53 Sco. 

Sco.. 





If the Querent Should be Rich or in a Capacity 
of Substance without Marriage. 


Herein first I considered the generall disposition of the Planets, and found that the Major number 
of them (especially the 2 Fortunes) were swift in their motion, well posited in houses, no manner 
of wayes in a violent way, or by a forcible aspect afflicting each other.. I also well considered 
that Venus Lady of the Ascendant. was neer to Cor Leonis, a Star of great vertue and influence, 
the Moon increasing in light, Jupiter almost culminating: From hence I collected thus much in 
generall, that he should subsist in the Common-wealth, and live in good ranke and quality among 
his Neighbours, etc.. (quoad capax) according to his calling.. 


Secondly, whether he should be rich or not? In resolving this Question, I considered, that the 
Lord of the 2nd is posited in the Angle of the East, and that the Lord of the 2nd, viz.. Mars is 
Lord of the Part of Fortune or Dispositor thereof, and is neere Spica Virgo in 18 degrees of 


Libra.. Then I observed that Jupiter a generall Significator of wealth, was in his exaltation and 
Angular, casting his Square Sinister very neer to the degree ascending, which Square in signes of 
long ascensions, we usually repute a Trine. I also found the Moon separated newly from 


The Resolution of 


Sextile of Mars Lord of the 2nd, and significator of the thing demanded, and immediately after 
separated from Conjunction of Mercury, then instantly applying to the Conjunction of Venus 
Significator of the Querent, transferring thereby both the vertue and influence of Mercury and 
Mars to the proper significator of the Querent; and the Moon is also disposed by the Sun and he 
is strong and powerful, and as she has a generall signification in every Question, so being no 
wayes unfortunate she promised the Querent much good.. Lastly, I considered that Part of 
Fortune was in a fixed sign and in Mars his own termes: from all which testimonies aforesaid, I 
judged that the Demandant would aquire an Estate, and have a competent future in this world, 
but attaine it with labour and care, because it is signified by an Infortune; so to the day hereof he 
hath; but because Mars Lord of the 7th (which is the house of Women and Wives) hath the most 
materiall signification of the thing demanded, viz.. Wealth and Riches. I advized to marry, and 
acquainted him, that without Marriage he should nothing so well subsist. 


By what Meanes, or how attaine Riches. 


Herein you must consider the Planet or Planets promising Wealth; Mars in our Scheame being 
Lord of the 2nd house and of Part Of Fortune is the Planet we must principally consider; for in 
the 2nd house you finde no Planet, as he is Lord of the 2nd and placed in the Ascendant, he 
intimates an estate to be got by the Querents owne industry, and because the Significator of the 
thing demanded is posited in the Ascendant, it argues that an estate or increase thereof would 
come somewhat easily or with lesse labor then expected, but Mars being an Infortune something 
lessens that point in our positure at this time; and as Mars is Lord of the 7th house, and thereby 
signifieth (Women, etc.) I acquainted him he would marry a Woman who would produce him a 
good fortune, and it fixed, and more then he could very well looke for; which I judged first by 
the Lord of the 7th his being in the Ascendant.. and neer so eminent a fixed Starre; as also 
because Venus who is Lady of the wives house of substance , viz. the 8th, is so well 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


fortified.. I afterwards considered the Moon was Lady of the 10th house (which signified his 
Trade) that she was transferring the light and nature of Mercury and Mars to the Querent; 
wherefore I advised him to diligence in his profession, and that he should thereby attaine a very 
good or competent Estate.. He hath, as he informs me, had a good fortune with he Wife, both 
Money and Land; and for his Trading it has been very good; for Jupiter in the 10th is a certaine 
and infallible argument (according to naturall causes) that the Querent shall have plenty of 
trading, or exercise a gainfull Profession.. 


The Time When. 


All the Significators either in the Ascendant, or Orientall quarter of Heaven, and 5 of the Planets 
swift in their motion, promise Substance in a small compasse of time, after the proposall of the 
Question.. Mars Lord of the 2nd house, and of Part Of Fortune, the principall thing inquired of, 
being swift in motion argues the same.. 


The distance of the Ascendant. from Mars being about 2 degrees, did in this way of judgment 
signifie 2 yeers or there-abouts, as what time he had a Portion with his Wife: Some may wonder 
why Mars being peregrine shall signifie any good to the Querent. I say to that, he being Lord of 
the 2nd house and of the 7th, and the promising Planet of the thing demanded, shall as well shew 
the time When, as also the performance of what he signifies, (but not without some manner of 
obstruction;) and herein no question ought to be made, as in civill societies of men, the wicked or 
ungracious doe as well many good offices of love for their Friends, as others better qualified.. In 
the next place, I observed what quantity of degrees the Moon wanted of her perfect Conjunct 
with Venus, etc.., I found they were 6 degrees, 27min.; from hence and the former consideration, 
I concluded, that about 2 yeers after that Question propounded, or sooner, he should sensibly 
perceive a melioration in Estate by meanes of a Wife, or by his owne proper diligence and 
industry, and about 1640, which was 6 yeers after the Question, he should have very great 
trading, and live in excelent repute, have many good Friends and 


The Resolution of 


Acquaintance, by whose meanes he should improve his Estate: And the reason why I judged 
augmentation of his Wealth by meanes of Friends was, because Venus is seated on the cusp of the 
11th house, which signifies Friendship, etc., for in all Judgments you must warily consider the 
nature of the house wherein the application of your Significators are, &c.. as also, when you 
judge in this nature of things contingent, you must measure out the time when they shall happen 
according to reason, and mix Art and Reason together, and not too much rely upon the generall 
rules of Art, for Abs te & a Scientia.. 


Of that Planet or Planets impediting the effecting or 
performance of what is demanded in every Question. 


It is considerable in all Demands, that you be carefull to know what that Planet is, who impedites 
the matter, or hinders it, that it shall take no effect, and we may justly call him Strong, Hurtfull, 
Destroyer, Abscissor, because he onely destroys and perverts the nature of the Question, when 
otherwayes it would come to a good conclusion: We receive judgment herein from that Planet 
with whom the Lord of the Ascendant. is joyned, or the Significator of the thing quesited after, 
whether it be the Moon her selfe, or that she is partaker with the Lord of the Ascendant, or not, or 
is Significatrix of the thing Demanded.. 


In resolving this you must consider the Planet unto whom the Significator of the Querent is 
joyned, or the Significator of the thing required, or the Moon, and observe how that Planet is 
disposed, and unto whom he is joyned; for if the Lord of the Ascendant, or Moon, or Significator 
of the matter propounded, is joyned to an evill Planet, evill disposed, without reception; or if he 
be not ill Disposed, but joyned to an Infortune, and he ill disposed, and receive him not, it 
prenotes the destruction of the thing quesited.. 


We understand a Planet to be ill disposed, when Peregrine, Retrograde, Combust, Cadent, from 
the Ascendant or house of the thing demanded, so that he beholds not the house, or at least the 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


Lord of the house, in this nature the aspect to the house is better than to the Lord thereof; so any 
Planet in his Fall or Detriment, may properly be called Destroyer or Obstructor, or Planet 
impediting. 


Moreover, it the Significator of the Querent, or thing sought after, or Moon, or Planet to whom 
she is joyned, whether she is a Significatrix, or hath participation in the Question, be joyned to an 
unfortunate Planet, viz. Retrograde, Combust, Cadent, then observe if Reception intervene; 
which if therebe, it signifies the perfection of the matter, though with wearinesse and much 
solicitation: If no reception be, the matter will come to nothing, though there have been much 
probability of its performance. 


If the Planet who receives the Lord of the Ascendant., or the Moon, or Lord of the thing 
Demended, or the Planet who receives any of them, be free from misfortunes, neither receiving 
or received, it perfects the matter with facility. 


If the Planet to whom the Lord of the Ascendant., or the Moon, or Lord of the matter sought 

after, be free from Infortunes, and is joyned to any benevolent Planet who is in aspect with a 
malevolent, and he impedited and not receiving the former Planet, the matter will not then be 
brought to perfection, or come to any good conclusion. 


Doe you still materially consider if the Planets aspects be without reception, for when they are in 
reception, things are brought to passe, though with some trouble; ever considering whether any 
Planet doe cut off the light and vertue of the Significators before their perfect Conjunction with 
an evill Planet; if such a thing happen, it hinders not, but that the matter may be perfected and 
accomplished: but if no abscission of light intervene, whereby the malevolence of the Infortune 
may be taken off, the matter is prohibited, and will not be effected. 


You must notwithstanding judge if Reception doe intervene whether it be not by Square or 
Opposition aspect, for then if a Planet be evill disposed, then the reception profiteth nothing; the 
lesse when he that is received is impedited: but if reception be by Sextile or Trine, you may 
confide the matter will be effected; or if the Planet who receives be at that time well disposed, let 
the 


The Resolution of 


reception be by any manner of aspect, the matter is performed, be the aspect Square or 
Opposition; if the aspect be Trine or Sextile, it performes the thing, whether the Significator be 
received or not; but provided, the aspect be not separated, but applying; if the Significator be 
joyned with a Fortune not impedited, the thing will be perfected.. 


If any Planet translate the light or vertue betwixt one Significator and another, and he to whom 
the light is translated be an Infortune, and impedited, the Question or matter is destroyed; unlesse 
the Infortune be againe received.. 


If the Significator of the Querent, or the Moon, and Significator of the thing looked after, be 
joyned to any Planet who collects the light of both Planets, be he an Infortune or infortunate, he 
destroyes the matter, and permits it not to be accomplished, unlesse himselfe receive both the 
Significators; if he receive onely one of them, it matters not, the matter will not be performed. 


Consider likewise, whether the Significator of the Querent be in the house of the thing desired, or 
going to Conjunction of his Lord, this intimates the Querent is going to the thing quesited after; 
if the Significator of the thing demanded be found in the Ascendant, or hastening to the 
Conjunction of the Significator of the Querent, it imports the matter enquired of, or thing desired 
shall come to the Querent, receptions notwithstanding, the Moon and other aspects remaining in 
their proper being.. 


If the Querent should continue Rich. 


This I resolved by the cusp of the and, which being a Sign fixed, and Part Of Fortune in it, and 
Jupiter in his exaltation and Angular, and Venus the Dispositor of Mars, and the Moon in Leo, a 
firme and stable Sign, I judged he would continue in a plentifull estate, and that the riches God 
should blesse him withall would be permanent; I meane, he would still have a competent fortune, 
and not be reduced to poverty or want. 


The Antiscjons of the Planets could be made little use of in this Figure, because none of them fell 
exactly either upon the cusp of any materiall house, or with the exact degree of any Planet; 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


onely I observe the Contrantiscion of Saturn fals neer to the degree of Jupiter; from whence I 
judged, no great unity betwixt him and his kindred, or Brothers and Sisters, for you see Saturn 
personally in the 3rd, and Jupiter Lord of that house, disturbed by Saturn his Contrantiscion, nor 
did it promise lesse then prejudice by servants, or some vices or blemishes at least in their 
behaviour, let their outward demeanour be what it will be; for though Jupiter be in his exaltation, 
yet the foresaid Contrantiscion doth afflict him, and leaves a tincture of Saturn with Jupiter: Here 
are onely two things of which in the course of his life I advised him friendly of, which materially 
arise out of the Figure, viz. because Sun Lord of the 11th, beholds Part Of Fortune with a Square 
Sinister, as also, the cusp of the 2nd house, and that the Sun is Lord of the 11th, which signifies 
Friends, I dehorted him from engagements, or confiding in Solar men, though of much friendship 
with him, for all in such cases describe the Planet afflicting, and you give caution enough; what 
manner of men Sun signifies; see page 71. 


Of the THIRD House, Viz. Of Brethern, Sisters, 
Kindred, Short Journeys. 


Many are the Demands which may be made concerning Questions appertaining to this House; 
but in effect, the most principall and materiall of them, and which naturally doe arise from hence, 
concerne the Querents Brothers, Sisters, Kindred, or whether there is like to be Unity and 
Concord betwixt the Querent and them, yea or no; or if the Querent shall live in peace with his 
Neighbors, or what are their condition good or bad; or of a short Journey, whether prosperous, 
yea or not. 


The Resolution of 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


If the Querent and his Brother, Neighbour or Sister 
shall agree or love each other. 


The Lord of the Ascendant is for him that asks the Question, the Lord of the 3rd for the Brother, 
Sister or Neighbour quesited after. 


If the Lord of the 3rd be a benevolent Planet, or if he be in the Ascendant, or if a fortunate Planet 
be in the 3rd, or if the Lord of the 3rd and the Lord of the Ascendant be in Sextile or Trifle aspect 
within the orbs of either Planet, or if they be in mutuall reception, or if the Lord of the 3rd cast 
his Sextile or Trine to the cusp of the Ascendant, or the Lard of the Ascendant cast his Sextile or 
Trine to the 3rd house; theres then no doubt but unity and concord will be betwixt the Querent 
and Brother, Sister, Neighbor or Kinsman quesited after; if a Fortune be in the Ascendant or the 
Lord of the Ascendant behold the cusp of the 3rd, and the Lord of the Ascendant doe not aspect 
either the Ascendant, or be in aspect with the Lord thereof, you may judge the Querent to be of 
good condition, and that there will be no default in him, but that the defect will be in the Brother, 
Sister, Neighbor or Kinsman quesited after; when either Saturn or Mars or South Node are 
locally placed in the Ascendant, it shewes the Querent to be evill conditioned, and the fault in 
him, but if you find either Saturn, Mars or South Node in the 3rd, unlesse in their owne essential] 
Dignities, it’s an assured evidence the Querent shall expect little good from his Brethern, Sisters, 
Neighbors, or Kindred, and less if they are Peregrine, Retrograde or Combust, or in any 
malevolent configuration with any other Planet; for though at the present time of the question, 
there is appearance of unity, yet will it not continue, but usually mortal hatred or untoward 
grumbling doth afterward arise. 


When Saturn is in the 3rd, or South Node, it signifies the Neighbours are Clownes,the kindred 
covetous and sparing; if Mars, then Kindred are treacherous, Neighbors theiveish; and this most 
assuredly when either of them are out of their Dignities Essentiall. 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


Of A Brother That is Absent. 


The Ascendant and his Lord are the Querents Significator, the cusp of the 3rd house shall be the 
Ascendant of the Brother that is absent, the 4th the absents house of Substance, and so in o rde r. 


Consider in what condition the Lord of the 3rd is in, and in what house, and how the Planets do 
aspect him, and whether he be in the aspect of the good or evill Planets, and what that aspect is 
they have to each other, or whether they are in Corporall Conjunction; for if the Lord of the 3rd 
be in the 3rd and the unfortunate Planets have no Square or Opposition aspect unto him, you may 
judge the Brother is in health; but if the malignant Planets behold him with a Square or 
Opposition, without reception, you may say, the Brother lives, is in health, but he is in great 
perplexity, discontent and sorrow; but if they behold him with the aforesaid aspects, and be in 
reception, you may say, the Brother is in great distresse, but will with ease evade it, and free 
himselfe from his present sad condition: but if the Fortunate Planets behold him with a Sextile or 
Trine aspect, without reception, or with a Square or Opposition with reception, you may Judge 
the Brother is in good health and is well content to stay in the place where he then is: if the 
fortunate Planets behold him with Sextile or Trine and with reception, you may tell the Querent 
his Brother is in health, and wants nothing in this world to make him happy: but if the Lord of 
the 3rd be in the 4th, which is his own 2nd house, without the aspect of the malignant Planets, he 
endeavours to get an Estate or fortune in that country wherein he is at the time of the erecting the 
Scheame; but if the Lord of the 3rd be in the 5th house, and is joyned with the Lord of the 5th 
house, with reception of a Fortune or not, as long as the Lord of the 5th house is not impedited in 
any grievous manner, it’s an argument the absent brother is in health, is jocund and merry, and 
well liketh the conversation of the men of that Country wherein he is: if he be a Fortune with 
whom the Significator of the Brother is in Conjunction with, or in Sextile or Trine with 
reception, you may then more safely pronounce the Brother to be in a good condition; 


The Resolution of 


yet if the Lord of the 3rd be in the 5th voyd of course, or in perfect Conjunction with any of the 
infortunate Planets, without reception, and those unfortunate Planets be themselves impedited, 
it’s an argument the absent Brother is indisposed in health, crazy and not contented in the place 
where he is: if you find the Brother’s Significator in other houses which are not naturally ill (as 
the 6th, 8th and 12th houses are) then he is not well placed, but yet no hurt will come of it. 


If the Brother’s Significator be found in the 8th house, and is either corporally or by Sextile or 
Trine aspect joyned to a Fortune, you may judge the Brother is not very well, yet not so ill, that 
he need any thing doubt of his well being; however, he is indisposed. 


If he be joyned to evill Planets by bad aspects, and out of the 6th house, the absent Brother is 
infirme; the same you may judge if the Lord of the 6th be in the 3rd, unless he have dignities in 
the Signe, and be in those dignities.. 


If you find the Brother of the Querent to be ill, see if the Lord of the 3rd be in Conjunction with 
the Lord of the 8th, or is entering Combustion, it’s likely then he will dye of that infirmity; but if 
you find his Significator in the 7th, say, he is in the same Country in which he went, and not yet 
gone out of it, he continues there as a Stranger or Sojourner, is neither well or ill, but so-so. 


If the Significator be in the 8th, he doubts himself that he shall dye; and the more dubious he is, 
if his Significator be either combust, or in conjunction with the Lord of the 8th in the 8th, or in 
aspect by Square or Opposition of the Infortunes out of the 8th. 


If the Significator be in the 9th, then is he gone from the place to which he first went into a 
further Country, or if capable, he is entered into some religious Order, or is imployed by those 
that are in Order, viz.. Religious Men, or possibly according to his quality, is imployed in some 
journey far distant from his former aboad. 


If his Significator be in the 10th, and joyned by the Conjunction or in aspect with the fortunes by 
Trine or Sextile aspect, especially with reception, he hath then got some imployment, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Office or Command in the Country where he is, and is in good estimation and lives in a credible 
way: but if he be joyned to the infortunes, or in Square or Opposition of them, or any other 
wayes be impedited by them, or Combust in the 10th; it may be feared he is dead. 


If he be in the 11th House, joyned to the Fortunes by any good aspect; or if he be in Conjunction 
with the Lord of the 11th; he is then safe at the house of a friend, and is pleasant and merry: 

but if evill Planets afflict him in that House, or cast their malevolent beames unto him; then is he 
malecontented, and not well pleased with his present condition. 


If he be in the 12th House, joyned to the Fortunes with reception, and that or those Fortunes not 
impedited; he then trucks for Horses, or great Cattle, is turned Grasier, or is Master of a Horse, 
an Hostler, a Drover of Cattle, or one that drives Cattle to Market, according to the quality of the 
person inquired about. 


If he be unfortunate in the 12th, or in bad aspect with the infortunes, or in aspect with the Lord of 
the 8th, or Combust; the man is discontent, and doubts he shall never see his Country againe; and 
well he may, for its probable he will dye there. 


If he be in the Ist, the absent Brother is frolicke and merry, and extreame well pleased where he 
is; and they much love and respect him where he is. 


If he be in the 2nd, it’s probable the man can by no means come away; either he is detained as 
prisoner, or hath done some such act as that he is not capable of coming away; yet if the 
Significator be Retrograde, he will make hard shift to escape when ever opportunity is offered. 


I have been somewhat more tedious in this judgment, because it is as a Key to all the rest: For if 
any ask of their Father being absent, let the 4th house be the Ascendant of him, and so run 
around the 12 houses in your judgment for the Father as you have done for the Brother, ever 
having this Consideration, that the 2nd House from the Ascendant of your Question, is the 
substance of the Quesited; the 3rd from that shall signifie his Brethern; 


The Resolution of 


the 4th his Father: If inquiry be made for a Childe, or Sonne, or Daughter absent, the 5th house is 
their Ascendant; the 6th their 2nd House, then the 7th their 3rd, &c. 


If one aske of a Servant, the 6th House is his 1st House or Ascendant; the 7th his 2nd or House of 
Substance, and so orderly as is before specified: and you must understand that although every 
House has his 6th, 8th House and 12th House, yet in every one quesited after, the 6th House of 
the Figure shall signify his infirmity, the 8th his death, the 12th his imprisonment; only you must 
know how to vary your Rules, wherein principally consists the Master-peece of the Art.. 


Of Reports, Newes, Intelligence, or Feares, whether true 
or false, or in what sense its best to take them? 
Whether they signifie good or evill? 


The manner of understanding this Question, and taking it in its proper sense, is diversly related 
by the Ancients; for some would make these like Questions to belong to the Sth house; others, to 
certaine Lords of triplicities, having dominion in the signs ascending or decending on the Cuspes 
of the 3rd or 5th House. That which I have found true by experience (in our woefull late sad 
times of Warre) was this; that if I found the Moon in the Ascendant, 10th, 11th, or 3rd House, 
separated by a benevolent aspect from any Planet (be he Lord of what House soever) and then 
applying by Trine or Sextile or Conjunction to the Lord of the Ascendant; I say, I did finde the 
report or rumour true, but alwayes tending to the good of the Parliment, let the report be good or 
ill; but if at the time of erecting the Figure, the Moon applyed to the Lord of the 7th by any good 
aspect, I was sure we had the worst, and our enemies the victory: 

if the Moon was voyd of course, the Newes proved to be of no moment, usually vaine or meer 
lyes, and very soon contradicted: 

if the Moon and Mercury were in Square aspect or in Opposition, and did not either the one or 
other, or both cast their favorable Sextile or Trine to the degree ascending, the Newes was false, 
and reported of purpose to affright us.. For the time when to 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


take the Question, I ever observed the houre when I first heard the newes or rumour, and tooke 
that moment of time for the ground of my question; but if another propounded it, then that very 
particle of hour when it was proposed: however, if at any time upon the like occasion you heare 
some speech or have some intelligence or report of anything, and would know whether it will be 
prejudiciall to you, yea or no, then see whether Jupiter of Venus be in the Ascendant, or the 
Moon or Mercury in any of their essentiall Dignities, in Trine or Sextile to the Lord of the 11th; 
you may then judge, the newes is such as you or the party enquiring shall receive no detriment 
thereby: but if you find the Lord of the 6th, 8th or 12th Houses in the Ascendant, or in bad aspect 
to the Lord of the Ascendant, or Mars or Saturn Retrograde in the Ascendant, or in an evill aspect 
with the Lord of the Ascendant, or casting their Square or Opposition rayes to the degree 
ascending, then the Querent shall receive prejudice by the newes he heares, if it concerne him or 
her self e; or if it concerne the Common—wealth, some dammage has happened to their 
Ministers or Parties: If Saturn signifie the mischiefe, their poor Country-friends have been 
plundered, lost their Corn and Cattle; if Mars, then some stragling parties of theirs is cut off; if 
Mercury, some of their letters have miscarried, or been intercepted; if the Sun be the Significator, 
their principall Officer or Commander in Chief e is in some distresse, etc., if Jupiter or Venus, the 
mischiefe fals on some Gentleman, their friends, or such as take part with them.. Herein vary 
your rules according to the Question.. 


If Rumors be True or False, According 
to the Ancients. 


Consider the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon, and see which of them is in an Angle, or if the 
Dispositor of the Moon be in an Angle, and a fixed Signe, or if any of these be in any succeedant 
house and fixed Signe, or in good aspect with the fortunate Planets, viz. in Sextile or Trine of 
Jupiter, Venus or Sun, you may then judge the Rumours are true and very good; but if you find 
the Lord of the Ascendant afflicted by the Infortunes, or cadent in house, you must judge the 
contrary though he strong in 


The Resolution of 


the Signe wherein he is.. Rumors are for the most part true when the Angles of the Figure are in 
Fixed signs, viz. Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius, and the Moon and Mercury in fixed Signes, 
seperating from the Infortunes and applying to a fortunate Planet, placed in any Angle. Ill 
Rumours hold true, if the Angles of the 4th and 10th house be fixed, and the Moon received in 
them; I say, they will be in some sort verified: If you heare evill newes or bad reports, or have 
unlucky intelligence, yet if either of the Fortunes be in the Ascendant, or the Moon Unfortunate, 
it’s a strong argument the Rumours are false, and that they will turne rather to good than evil: 
The Retrogradation of Mercury, or he any other way afflicted, or of that Planet to whom the 
Moon applies, or to whom Mercury applies, and above all, if either of those two be Lords of the 
Ascendant, doe signifie the ill Rumours shall vanish to nothing, and shall be converted to good; 
if the Lord of the Ascendant be under the Sun Beames or Combust, the matter is kept secret, and 
few shall ever know the truth of them.. 


Of Counsell or Advice given, whether it be for 
good or evill. 


Sometimes a Neighbour, Kinsman or Friend takes occasion to come visit their Friends, with 
intention and pretension to give them good advice, or perswade them to such or such a matter, 
&c., if you would know, whether they intend really, yea or no, erect your Figure for the moment 
of time when first they begin to break their minds unto you; then consider if there be in the 
Medium Coeli, 10th house a fortunate Planet, viz. Sun, Jupiter or Venus, or else North Node, or 
the Moon applying to the Lord of the Ascendant, then judge they come with an honest heart, and 
the advice they give is intended for your good: If an Infortunate, viz.. Saturn, Mars or South 
Node, they intend deceitfully, and are lyars. Haly doth further affirm, that if the Signe ascending 
be a moveable Signe, and the Lord of the Ascendant, and the Moon in moveable Signes, he is 
trecherous fellow, and comes with deceit to entrap you. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Whether the Querent Have Brethren or Sisters. 


Although this is better resolved from the proper Nativity of the Querent, then the Question; yet 
you may observe these rules, which I have found true by experience. 


Viz. If you find upon the cusp of the 3rd house a fruitfull Sign, as Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces 
(Aquarius, Sagittarius or Gemini, though these are not so fruitful as the other) yet you may judge 
he hath Brethren or Sisters; Brother or Brethren, if a Masculine Signe be there, and the Lord 
thereof in a Masculine Signe or house, or in aspect with a Masculine Planet: Sister or Sisters, if 
the Feminine Signe and Planet be in the 3rd, or the Significators in Feminine Signes or Houses, 
and in Conjunction or application to Feminine Planets; some say, so many Planets as are in the 
house, or that the Lord of the 3rd is in aspect with, so many Brothers or Sisters the Querent has; 
but I ever held it too scrupulous to require such particulars from a Question: the unity amongst 
Brethren or Kindred, wither in the present or future, is discernable by the last aspect the Lord of 
the 3rd, and the Lord of the Ascendant were in, or by the happy positure of Benevolent or 
malignant Planets in the Ascendant or 3rd; for where the Fortunes are placed, from there it may 
be expected all unity and concord from that party: from the Querent, if they be in the Ascendant: 
from the Brother, Sister of Kindred in generall, if the Fortunes be in the 3rd.. The ill positure of 
Saturn or Mars out of their essentiall Dignities in the 3rd, or South Node therein, is a strong 
argument of untoward and crosse Brethren, Sisters or Kindred, and of no unity betwixt them, but 
continuall discord, wrangling and jangling, &c, 


Of A Short Journey, if good to goe, yea or no; 
which way intended. 


By a short Journey I intend, 20, 30 or 40 miles, or so farre from ones home, as he may goe and 
come in a day, or at lest on the next; now if you would know whether it will be best for you to 
goe, yea or not: herein consider the Lord of the Ascendant at the time of propounding the 
Question, and see if he be swift or 


The Resolution of 


slow in motion, or in any of the Dignities of the Lord of the 3rd, or placed in the 3rd, or in 
Sextile or Trine or Conjunction either with the Lord of the 3rd, or with a Benevolent Planet 
posited in the 3rd, or if the Moon Apply to the Lord of the 3rd, or to any Planet posited in the 
3rd, or be in the 3rd, or cast her Sextile aspect to the Signe ascending, or her Square in Signes of 
short ascensions, in any house whatsoever, or if she be swift in motion, all, or any of these are 
arguments, that the party shall goe his short Journey, and with good successe; and if you would 
know to what part of Heaven the place lyeth whether he goe, consider the Signe of the 3rd house, 
the Signe wherein the Lord of the 3rd is, and wherein the Moon is, and judge by which of them is 
strongest in essentiall Dignities where he is; if the principall Significator be in a Northerne Signe, 
then his Journey is intended North, and so of the rest, with their due limitations. 


Friday a 
hora: meridiane $14 Hr : : 


Queflion; 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


In November 1645, a citizen of London being gone into the West of England, and no newes for 
many weeks had where he was, his owne Brother with great importunity moved me to give my 
judgment concerning these Particulars. 


1. If living or dead? if dead, whether killed by souldiers? for at this time our 
miserable Kingdome was full of Souldiery. 


2. If living, when he should heare of him? and where he was? 
3. When he would come home? 
CHAP. XXX 


Judgment upon the preceding Figure. 


The Ascendant doth represent the shape and forme of him that asked the Question, with 
consideration had to Saturn Lord of the Signe; and as both the Signe ascending and Lord thereof 
are of a dry quality and nature, so was the Querent, leane, spare of body, and a reall Saturnine 
man, &c. 


Taurus is the Ascendant of the 3rd House, and Venus being Lady of the Signe, did represent the 
absent Brother, or party inquired after: the Moon in regard she neither applyed to one significator 
or other, had not much to doe in this Question, I mean in description of the parties.. 


For as much as Venus significatrix of the Quesited is no manner of way afflicted either by 
Mercury who is Lord of the eight in the figure, or by Mars who is Lord of the eight as to the 
Ascendant of the quesited, and that the seperation of the Moon was good, viz. from a Dexter of 
Jupiter, and her next application to a Conjunction of Sun, upon the Cuspe of Medium Coeli, I 
judged the absent Brother was alive and had no manner of casualty happened unto him, but was 
in good health. Having judged the man to be alive, there needs no proceeding to judgment of the 
rest of the first Quere. 


The Resolution of 


When Heare of him. 


You see Venus is Lady of the 3rd, and Saturn is Lord of the Ascendant; if you consider the Signes 
they are in, and the severall degrees of each Planet in the Signe; you shall observe, that as well 
the Significator of the absent Brother, who is Venus, as Saturn Lord of the Ascendant doe apply 
to each other by a friendly Trine; for Saturn though a ponderous Planet, yet being Retrograde and 
in more degrees of the Signe then Venus, does by Retrogradation apply to meet her: a very good 
argument that the Querent should heare newes of his Brother very suddenly; and if you looke 
into the Ephemeris of Eickstadius 1645, Nov.7, you shall finde the true time of the Trine aspect 
betwixt Saturn and Venus to be at five of the clocke the same day the Question was asked in the 
afternoon; but with reduction to our London Meridian a little after foure: I therefore advised the 
Querent to goe to the Carriers of those Countries where he knew his Brother had been, and aske 
of them when they saw the quesited; for I told him, it was probable he should heare of him that 
very day; upon the reason onely because the Significators of both parties met by a friendly Trine, 
He has since confidently affirmed, that about the very moment of time, viz. about four, a Carrier 
came casually where he was, and informed him his Brother was in health and living. 


Where He Was. 


His Journey was into the West; at time of the question I find Venus the quesited his Significatrix, 
leaving Sagittarius a Northeast Signe, and entring Capricorn a South Signe: whereupon I judged 
he was in the South-east part of the Country unto which he went; and because Venus was not 
farre removed from the Ascendant, but was in the Oriental quarter of Heaven, I judged he was 
not above one or two dayes journey from London; and because Venus was departing the Signe 
Sagittarius, and entring the Signe Capricorn, wherein she has essentiall Dignities by Triplicity 
and Terme, I judged the man was leaving the country and place where he last was, and wherein 
he had no Possessions or Habitation, and was coming to his own house in London, wherein he 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


had good propriety; in regard that Venus wanted one degree of getting out of Sagittarius, I judged 
he would be at home in lesse then one week; for Sagittarius is a Bicorporeal, Common Signe, 
and one degree in that Signe, and in the nature of this question, might well denote a week. 


But he came home the Tuesday following, when the Moon came to the body of Venus, she being 
then got into Capricorn to her owne Termes, and into her Diurnall Triplicity. 


There being an amicable aspect betwixt the two Brothers Significators, viz. Saturn and Venus, 
these two Brothers alwayes did, and doe agree lovingly: This which has been said is enough 
concerning the judgment of this question; vary your judgment according to the position of your 
Significators and matter propounded, and by this method you may judge of anything propounded 
belonging to this 3rd house. 


CHAPTER XXXI. 


If a Report or common Rumour were 
True or False. 


In the yeer 1643, His Majesties Army being then Rampant, severall Reports were given out, that 
his Majesty had taken Cambridge, &c. a wel-affected person enquires of me, if the newes were 
true or false? Whereupon I erected the Figure ensuing, and gave Judgment, All that we 
heard was untruth, and that the Towne neither was, or should be taken by Him or his Forces. 


ied g™ 
Dns he g 





A Report that CA MB RIDGE was Taken by the Kings 
Forces; if true? 


First, I considered that the Angles were all moveable, and that Mars did vitiate the cusp of the 
10th, and Saturn the cusp of the 7th, one argument the Report was false. 


Secondly, I found the Moon cadent, and in Gemini, a Signe wherein she nothing delights; a 
second strong evidence of a false rumor. 


Thirdly, I found North Node on the cusp of the Ascendant, a Signe of good to the Parliment, for 
the Ist house signified that honorable Society: I found Venus Lady of the Ascendant, and our 
Significatrix, in her Exaltation; but Mars, Lord of our Enemies Ascendant, viz. the 7th, entering 
his Fall, viz. Cancer, and afflicted by Square of Saturn; I saw the Moon seperating from Jupiter, 
placed in the 7th and transferring his light and virtue to Venus, which gave me reason to expect, 
that there would come 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


good to us or our side from this report or Rumour, and no benefit to our Enemies: I saw Mars and 
Saturn in a Square, which assured me our Enemies were so full of division and treason, and 
thwarting one anothers Designes, that no good should come unto them upon this Report; and so 
in short, I judged Cambridge was not taken, and what we heard of its taking were lyes. 


Had this question been propounded, Whether the Querent should have Brothers or Sisters? Then 
you would have converted the Judgment thus: 


Scorpio —The Signe of the 3rd is a fruitfull Signe. 
Cancer —Wherein the Lord of the 3rd is posited, is a fruitfull Signe. 


Moon applies to Venus who is placed in a fruitfull Signe, as you may see page 89, where all 
these Signes are noted Prolifical, or Signes arguing fruitfulnesse; from hence you might have 
assured the Querent, he might have expected both Brothers and Sisters, or a plentifull numerous 
kindred; but more Sisters than Brothers, because all the Signes are Feminine, as you may see 
page 88, and Mars, Lord of the 3rd, is in a Feminine Signe; yet in regard the Moon who is 
Dispositor of Mars, is in Gemini, a Masculine Signe, and in Sextile platick with Jupiter, a 
Masculine Planet, Angular, and in a Masculine Signe and House, it’s an argument of the 
Demandant’s having a Brother or Brethern.. 


It was too nice a poynt in Art, to predict of the certain number, if we onely intend to satisfie our 
selfe in generall, leaving the disposing and determination of their certaine number to divine 
Providence. 


The 3rd house is no wayes afflicted, or any ill aspects betwixt Venus, Significatrix of the 
Querent, and Mars Lord of the 3rd, both being in Signes of the same nature, and Moon Applying 
by a Square Dexeter in Signes of short ascensions, to Venus; Moon haveing been lately, and yet 
being within Orbs of the Sextile of Jupiter; there argue an agreement, concord and unity betwixt 
this Querent Kindred and him, and betwixt him and such Brothers or Sisters as he should in 
future have. 


The Resolution of 


CHAPTER XXXII. 


Of the FOURTH House, and the Judgment 
depending thereupon. 


This is the House of Parents, of Lands, Tenements, 
Hereditaments, Cities, Towns, Villiages, Farmes, 
Manours, Castles, Treasure-trove, or of any thing 

hid in the ground, &c. 


To Find A Thing hid or mislaid. 


Becareful to take your Ascendant exactly, and consider the nature of the Question, viz. whose 
Goods, or to whom the thing missing, or lost, or enquired after did appertaine; if the Goods be 
the Querents own Commodity, then see to the Lord of the 2nd; if it belong to the Brother or 
Sister, then have regard to the Lord of the 4th; if to the Father, the Lord of the Sth; if to the 
Mother, the Lord of the 11th, &c. and so in order, according to the nature of the Party who 
proposeth the Question. 


If you find the Lord of the 2nd in any Angle, you may judge the thing lost, hid or missing, is 
within the house of him that demands the Question; and if the Lord of the 2nd be in the 
Ascendant, or in the Sign wherin the Lord of the Ascendant is, or in one of his houses, you may 
judge the things is in that part of the house which he himselfe most frequents, or wherein he doth 
most abide, or is conversant, or where he layeth his owne Commodities, or such things as he 
most delights in; but if the Lord of the 2nd be in the 10th house, it’s then in his Shop, if he be a 
Mechanick; if a Gentleman, in his Hall or Dining-room; if a Husband-man, in the ordinary 
common room of his house, or first room after entrance into his house: If the Lord of the 2nd be 
in the 7th, it’s in that part of the house where his Wife, or his Maid-servants have most to do in: 
If the Lord of the 2nd be 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


in the 4th, it’s where the most aged of the house doth lodge, or formerly did most frequent, or in 
the middle of the house, or in the most ancient part of the house, where either his Father or some 
ancient man lodged: The nature and quality of the place is knowne by the Signes the 
Significators are in;for if the Signe of the 2nd be alery, or the greater number of the Significators 
and Signe wherein Part of Fortune is, doth concurre, the thing is his in the Eaves or top, or upper 
part of that house or roome where it is, or on high from the ground: and if the thing hid be in the 
Field, or in a Garden or Orchard, it’s higher then the ordinary ground, or upon the highest hill or 
part of that ground, or hangs upon some stalk of a Plant or Tree. 


If the former Significators be strong, and in watry Signes, it’s in the Buttery, Dairy or Wash 
house, or neer Water. 


If in fiery Signes, it’s neer the Chimney, or where Iron is, or in, or neer the Wals of the house. 


If in earthly Signe, the thing hid is on the ground or earth, under or neer some Pavement or Floor, 
and if you find the thing to be mislaid out of the house in any ground, it notes neer the Bridge or 
Stile where people come into the ground.. 


If your Significator be going out of one Signe and entering another, the thing is behind 
something or other, or is carelesly fallen downe betwixt two rooms, or neer the Threshold, or 
joyning together of two rooms, and is higher or lower in the place, according to the nature of the 
Signe, &c. 


[What Part of the House or Ground.] 

The Ancients have delivered many rules, and doe say, that to judge in what part of the house or 
ground the thing is in, you must see to the Lord of the hour, and if he be in the 10th house or 
11th, you may say the thing is in the South part of the house, towards the East; and if he between 
the 4th house and Ascendant, then North-east: if he be between the 4th house and 7th, then 
North-west; If between the 10th house and the 7th, then Southwest 


This is and was the opinion of the former Astrologians, however, I have not found this judgment 
very exact, therefore I laboured to find a more certaine manner, and a more exact way for the 


The Resolution of 


ready discovery or finding out anything mislaid or missing in the house, and not stolen: and it 
was thus: 


First, I considered the Signe ascending, it’s nature, the quarter of Heaven it signified. 

Secondly, what Signe the Lord of the Ascendant was in. The Signe of the 4th house. 

The Signe the Lord of the 4th was in.. What Signe the Moon was in.. 

The Signe of the 2nd house. 

The Signe the Lord of the 2nd was in.. The Signe Part of Fortune was in. 

I considered the quality of the Signe, as to shew what part of the house it was in; I mean, what 
quarter, whether East, West, North or South, according to the greater number of testimonies: 

and you must know, for things lost, mislaid, or fugitives, there are the true quarters of Heaven the 
Signes signifie. 


Ari. - East, Leo - East by North, Sag.- East by South 
Lib. - West, Gem.- West by East, Aqu.- West by North 
Can..- North, Sco. - North by East, Pis.- North by West 
Cap.- South, Tau.- South by East, Vir.-South by West 


Having found the quarter of Heaven, the nature of the Signes showed me also the quality of the 
place in the house, viz.. aiery Signes, above ground; fiery Signes, neer a Wall or Partition; earthly 
Signes, on the Floor; watry Signes, neere a moyst place in the roome, &c. A few experiments I 
know may better this Judgment: I have sometimes in merriment set a present Figure, and by that 
discovered in what part of the house the Glove, Book or any thing else was hid, and found the 
rule very true. 


CHAP. XXXII. 


Of Buying and Selling Lands, Houses, Farmes, &c. 


Give the Ascendant and Lord thereof, and Planet from whom the Moon is separated to the 
Querent or Buyer. 


Give the 7th house the Lord thereof, and the planet to whom the Moon applyes to the Seller. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Give the 4th house, the Planet therein placed, and the Moon and the Lord of the 4th house to the 
House, Ground or Mannour to be bought or purchased... 


Let the 10th house, a Planet or Planets posited therein, and Lord of that house signifie the Price, 
that is, Whether it will be sold cheap or deer. 


[If Agree.] 

If you find the Lord of the Ascendant and Lord of the 7th in any amicable aspect, the Lord of the 
7th applying to the Lord of the Ascendant, you may judge the Seller hath good will to Sell and to 
deale with the Querent or Buyer: and if the Significators be in any essentiall Dignities upon this 
their application or translation of light; or their application be by Conjunction, it’s then probable 
they will agree and conclude upon the Purchase with little labour: if the application or translation 
of light be by Square or Opposition, the two Parties will at last bargaine, but with many words 
and probabilities of breaking off, and after much expense of time. 


Consider also, if the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon apply to the Lord of the 4th, or the Lord 
of the 4th or the Moon to the Lord of the Ascendant, and whether only the Lord of the 4th apply 
to the Lord of the Ascendant, and he receive him in any of his Dignities, or if the Lord of the 
Ascendant be in the 4th, or the Moon, or the Lord of the 4th in the Ascendant, then shall the 
Party enquiring buy the House or Inheritance at that time in question, 


But if this dwelling in houses be not, yet if the Moon transferre the virtue or light of the Lord of 
the 4th to the Lord of the Ascendant, the Bargaine will be concluded, but rather by Messengers or 
Brokers, than by the personall treaty of the two principall Agents. 


If there be no application or translation, or transferring the light of one Planet or another, it’s not 
like there will be any Bargaine concluded.. 


Of the goodnesse or badnesse of the Land or House.. 
[House or Land, good or ill.| 


If you find in the 4th house the 2 Infortunes, very potent or peregrine, or if the Lord of the 4th be 
Retrograde or 


The Resolution of 


unfortunate, or in Fall or Detriment, ‘twill never continue long with your Posterity.. 


But if either Jupiter, Venus or North Node be in the 4th, or the Lord of the 4th in his owne house, 
viz. in the 4th, the Purchaser may expect good successe in the Land or House now in buying, and 
that it may continue a long time with his Posterity, and it’s an argument he shall have good 
encrease for his Money by that Bargaine. 


[Quality of the ground.| 
If it be arrable land, and you would know the nature of it, make the ascendant the Significaton of 
the Tenants, Husband-men and Farmers occupying it. 


The 4th house shall signifie the condition and nature of the soyl, its form and condition; or of a 
House or Houses, when the Question is for them. 


The Angle of the West shall signifie the Herbage thereof, and the quality and quantity, but the 
Medium Coeli is Signifier of the Wood, Trees and Plants growing thereupon.. 


[Tenants, good or ill.] 

It an Infortune possesse the Ascendant, the Tenants or Occupants are ill, deceitfull and unwilling 
the goodnesse of the ground should be discovered: if a Fortune be in the Ascendant judge the 
contrary, viz. the Tenants are honest men, and doe give, and will give the Land lord content, and 
will love him besides, and are content to hold what they have already, and to occupy the Land 
still; but if an infortunate Planet be in the ascendant and direct, the Tenants will purloyne the 
Woods, or weare out the virtue of the land; but if he be Retrograde, the Tenants wil put the land 
upon the Landlord, or will run away or throw up their Leases. 


[Wood on the ground.] 

If a Fortunate Planet be in the Mid-fleaven and Direct, say there is good Timber upon the ground, 
and good store; if the Fortune be Retrograde, judge there are many Trees, but little Timber, and 
those lopt, or that of late the Seller hath sold many, or made much spoyle thereof, or that the 
Trees are much decayed, &c.. if an Infortune be in the Medium Coeli, direct, there’s then but few 
Trees; if he be Retrograde, say, the Country people have stolne, or made great wast thereof, 


But if no planet be in the Mid-heaven, see to the Lord of that house, if he behold it with a good 
aspect, and be in any of his 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


owne Dignities, say there is some Wood on the ground; if he does not behold the Mid-heaven, 
either there is little or no Wood, or it is North nothing; if the Lord of the 10th be Orientall, and 
behold his owne house, the Trees are young ones, or the Wood of small growth, or there are 
Copses: but if the Lord of the 10th be Occidentall, and in the condition beforesaid, the Trees are 
of more growth, and the Wood is ancient; and if the Lord of the 10th be then direct, the Trees are 
found, and will continue so a long time; but if Retrograde, there’s many Trunks and hollow Trees 
among them.. 


Having considered what precedes, consider the Angle of the West, or the 7th house, which will 
declare unto thee the state and quality of the Herbage, or smaller Plants of the ground, for if you 
find either Jupiter or Venus, or the Lord of the 7th in the 7th, it’s an argument the Land yeelds 
plenty of Grasse, Come, or what is reasonably required from it, if an Infortune be there, judge the 
contrary, &c. 


[Quality of the ground.| 

In consideration of the property of the earth, have respect to the 4th house and Signe of the 4th, 
for if Aries, Leo or Sagittarius be on the cusp of the house, it’s hilly, mountainous, dry and hard 
piece of ground, or a great part of it is so; if either Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn be on the cusp of 
the 4th, the ground is plaine, champion, and excellent Pastorage, or good for Grazing or Tillage. 
If Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, it’s neither very hilly or very plaine (flat), but there is grounds of 
both types, and in nature part of it is good, and part not so: if Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, then 
there is no doubt but there is some pretty River, Rivolet, or good store of Water. 


You must for the perfect knowledge of the quality and nature of the soyle, observe this generall 
tule, That if an Infortune be in the Signe of the 4th, Retrograde, or in his Fall or Detriment, the 
land shall partake highly in the infelicity that Planet signifies; as if Scorpio be the cusp of the 
4th, and Saturn is place therein, and is either Retrograde or afflicted by some other Misfortune, 
you may confidently averre, the ground is troubled with too much Water, or it’s Boggy and 
unwholesome, full of long rushy Grasse, &c. 


And if the Land lye neer the Sea, you may feare the excursion of the Sea, or a decay in the Sea- 
banks, or it is subject to be overflowne with the River or Water, &c. if Saturn afflict a fiery 


The Resolution of 


Signe in the 4th, the Land is barren, stony nungry, mountainous, yeelds no profit without infinite 
labour, wants water, for it’s naturally barren, produces little Grasse: If Saturn afflict the sign of 
Gemini, by his presence there, or any of the humane Signes, viz. Libra or Aquarius, by his 
retrogradation, that Signe being the cusp of the 4th, there’s yet defect in the goodnesse of the 
Land, and ill Husbands have formerly managed it unthriftily: 

If he be unfortunate in an earthly Signe, upon the Signe of the 4th, the Land is good, but the 
present Occupiers give it not its due Tillage, or are not in the right way in their managing it, they 
are idle, lazy, slothfull, penurious, and unwilling to bestow cost upon it; besides, it’s an heavy 
clay ground, and the Farmers understand not the nature of the Soyl, &c. 


[Cheap or Dear.] 

This is knowne by the Lord of the 10th, for if he be Angular, Direct, and strong in essentiall 
Dignities, the price will be high, and the Seller will put it off at deare rates; but if the Lord of the 
10th be cadent, retrograde, slow of motion, afflicted, then the price will not rise high. 


If it be good to hire or take the Farme, House 
or Land Desired. 
Give the Ascendant and his Lord to the person of him that would hire a House, or take Lands. 


Let the 7th house and his Lord signifie him or her that hath the letting or selling of this House or 
Farme. 


Let the 10th house and the Lord thereof signifie the Profit which may arise by that undertaking. 


The 4th house, and Planets therein placed shall shew the end which shall ensue upon taking, or 
not taking the House, Land or Farme, &c. be it what it will be. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant shall be in the Ascendant or Signe ascending, or shall have a Sextile 
or Trifle aspect unto the Signe ascending, but more properly to the degree ascending, within the 
moyity of his owne Orbs, or if in the Ascendant there be a Fortune, whether essentially dignified 
or not, or if Part Of Fortune be therein placed, and not impedited, it’s an argument or 


all manner or QUESTIONS 


testimony the Farmer shall take the House, Land or Farme, and is full of hope to doe good 
thereby, or that it will be a good Bargaine, and he obtain much profit thereby, and that he hath 
much liking to the thing, and is well pleased therewith. 


But if an Infortune be in the Ascendant (it’s no matter which of them) if the man have taken the 
thing ere he come unto you, it now repents him; if he have not taken it already, he has no will 
thereunto; or if he does take it, he will presently post it off to some other party, for he nothing at 
all earns for the Bargaine. 


Having considered what belongs to the party intending to buy or take a Lease, have now recourse 
to the 7th house, and Lord thereof, for him that shall let it: If you find the Lord of the 7th in the 
7th, or casting a benevolent aspect to the cusp of the house, or find a fortunate Planet therein, the 
man will keep his word with you, you shall have what you bargaine with him for, but he will 
profit by the bargaine. 


If an Infortune be in the 7th, and not Lord of the 7th, have great care of the Covenants and 
Conditions to be drawne betwixt you, the Landlord will be too hard for you, he minds nothing 
but his owne ends in dealing with you. 


Consider the 10th house afterwards, and if a fortunate Planet be therein, or behold the 10th 
house, the parties notwithstanding some rubs, will proceed in their Bargaine, and the House, 
Farme or Lands will be let to the Querent. 


But if you find an Unfortunate Planet in the 10th, or behold that house with an Opposition or 
Square aspect, there will be no house or Lands taken; and if it be Land that is in agitation to be 
let, it’s probable they differ about the Wood or Timber on the ground, or upon the new erecting of 
some houses or building upon the ground; or if it be a house, they differ upon the repaires 
thereof. 


As to the end of the businesse, see to the 4th house, and let that signifie the end thereof; if there 
be a Fortune therein, or if the Lord of the 4th be there, or behold the house with Sextile or Trine, 
there will come a good end of the matter in hand, both parties will be pleased: but if an Infortune 
be there, in conclusion, the Matter, bargain or thing demised wil neither please the one party or 
other. 


The Resolution of 


CHAP. XXXIV. 


If the Querent shall enjoy the Estate of his Father. 


You must in this Question give the Ascendant and Lord thereof to the Querent; the 4th house, 
Lord thereof and Planet posited in the 4th for the Significator of the Father; the personall Estate 
or Goods moveable of the Father are signified by the 5th house, his Lord, and any Planet 
accidentally placed in the 5th; if in this Question you find the Lord of the 2nd and Lord of the Sth 
in reception, the Lord of the 5th being in the 2nd, and the Lord of the 2nd in the Sth, there’s no 
doubt to be made but the Querent shall have a competent fortune out of the Estate of his Father; 
but if it happen that the Lord of the 5th house be Retrograde, or in some bad aspect of any 
malevolent Planet, then some part of that Estate the Father intends for the Querent, will be 
wasted or otherwayes disposed of by the Father; and if you enquire wherefore or upon what 
grounds, or who shall be the occasion of it? then see what Planet it is that impedites the Lord of 
the Sth, either by Square or Opposition, or if it be the Sun by Combustion, what house he is Lord 
of; if it be the Lord of the 6th, it’s probable it is one of the Fathers Brothers or Sisters, or some of 
his Tenants or Neighbours that will perswade the Father to alter his intention, and to diminish 
part of what he did formerly intend to doe: If it be the Lord of the 7th, it is some Woman or 
Sweethart, or one the Querent hath been sometimes at variance with, that will withdraw the 
Parents intention: If it be the Lord of the 12th, it’s some sneaking Parson or Parish Priest, or 
some or other of the Mothers Kindred; now if upon the description of the Party, the Querent is 
well informed of him or her who it is, and he is desirous to obtain this parties favour or good 
will, that so he may be lesse malicious unto him, let him then observe, when the Planet who 
impedites, and the Lord of the Ascendant, are approaching to a Sextile or Trine or Conjunction, 
and that day that in the Ephemeris he shall find the Moon seperating from the one, and applying 
to the other, let him, I say, about or at that time endeavour a reconcilement, and it’s 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


not to be doubted that he may obtaine his desires, as I have found many times by good 
experience. 


If the Lord of the 5th dispose of Part of Fortune, and be in the Ascendant or 2nd, the Querent 
shall obtain his desires which he expects from his Father. 


If Jupiter or Venus out of the 5th house cast their benevolent aspects to any Planet in the 
Querents 2nd, it argues the same. 


If the Moon separate from the Lord of the Sth, and either have presently after a Sextile or Trifle 
to the Lord of the 2nd, or of the Ascendant, it shows strong and assured hopes of aquiring the 
thing demanded of the Father. 


If you find an Infortune in the 4th, not having Dignities there, then you may say the Father hath 
little left to part with his Money, nor will it be good to move him much, untill that unfortunate 
Planet be transited out of that Signe; but if you cannot stay so long, observe when that 
unfortunate Planet is Direct, Swift in Motion, Orientall, and in Sextile or Trine with Jupiter or 
Venus, or with the Lord of the Ascendant, and then let the Father be moved in the businesse: This 
I write, where the Querent would have present meanes, and cannot conveniently stay the Fathers 
leizure: nor do I write, that the observation of those times doe themselves enforce the mind or 
will of the Father, but that then at those times there’s more benevolent inclinations. 


If you find the Lord of the 2nd and the 5th, applying by Retrogradation to any good aspect, the 
Querent will receive some Estate from his Father suddenly, ere he be aware, or when he least 
thinks of it: now to know, whether the Father love the Querent better than any of his Brothers or 
Sisters, you must observe, whether the Lord of the 3rd, or any Planet in the 3rd be neerer to, or in 
better aspect with the Lord of the 4th, then the Lord of the Ascendant is, or if there be any 
reception betwixt them, viz. the Significators of Brothers and Sisters, or translation of light, and 
none betwixt the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 4th, You may then be assured, the 
Fathers affection stands more to another then to the Querent; the Planet neerest in aspect to the 
Lord of the 4th, shews the party or person beloved, so do the most powerfull reception of 
Significators. 


The Resolution of 


CHAP. XXXV. 


If Good to remove from one house or place to another, 
or to stay or abide in any place or not? 


See to the Lords of the Ascendant, the 4th house and 7th house, for if the Lord of the 4th be in 
the 7th, and be a good Planet, and the Lord of the Ist and 7th be good Planets, or strong in that 
part of Heaven where they are, or in the whole Figure, if they be Direct, and of swift motion, and 
in good aspect with good Planets, it is good then to abide still and not remove from the place 
where the Querent is; but if the Lord of the 7th be with a good Planet, and the Lord of the 4th 
with an evill one, it is then not good to stay, for if he doe, he shall recetve much damage there: 
That which I have observed in this manner of Judgment was this; That if the Lord of the 
Ascendant did lately separate from the Square or Opposition of the Lord of the 6th, 8th or 12th, 
and the Moon also did concure in judgment, viz. if she separate from any evill aspect of the 
Infortunes, they being Lords of either the 7th or 4th &c. and not Friends or Significators in the 
person of the Querent; or if I found an Infortune in the Ascendant, Peregrine or Retrograde, or if 
a Peregrine or unfortunate Planet was in the 4th, or if the Lord of the 2nd was weak or ill posited, 
I advised the Querent to remove his habitation, and gave him reason why he should; for if I 
found the Lord of the 6th house in the Ascendant, or afflicting the Lord of the Ascendant, I 
judged he had his health very bad there, was sickly, or tormented with ill servants, by whose 
meanes he did not thrive in his Vocation. 


If the Lord of the 12th afflicted the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon, I said he had backbiting, 
evill or slanderous Neighbours, or people that lived not very farre from him did scandalize him: 
If the Lord of the 2nd was unfortunate, or in Square or Opposition to the Lord of the Ascendant, 
or if Part of Fortune was in the 12th, 8th or 6th, I judged he went back in the world, and his 
Estate consumed. 


If his Significator, viz. if the Lord of the Ascendant was 


afflicted by the Lord of the 10th, I acquainted him, his Reputation was lost, his Trade decayed, or 
had no Trading; and if the Lord of the 4th was unfortunate, or the 4th house itself, I judged the 
house was unlucky, and few that had lived therein did thrive, or that the Repaires of the house 
had much weakened him, r the house stood not conveniently for his Trade]. If the Lord of the 7th 
afflicted the Lord of the Ascendant or 2nd, his overthwart Neighbours had all the Trade, were 
better furnished with Commodities, &c. Now in giving direction which way to steer his course, 
in hopes of better Trading, I observed what Planet in the Scheame was most fortunate and 
strongest, and had the most friendly aspect to either the Lord of the Ascendant or Lord of the 
2nd, look what quarter of Heaven the Signe that Planet was in did signifie, to that part did I ever 
advise the Querent to remove; and I remember not, that any ever repented their following my 
advice; many have afterwards returned to me thanks and rewards. 


And whereas I mention these words (perhaps the house was unluckie) some may cavill at the 
words, and say,God’s blessing is alike in all places, and it’s superstitious to judge, a house that is 
not a living thing, can be made unsuccessfull or unfortunate, &c.: Let them enjoy their opinion 
still; there’s not a man in this world lesse superstitious than my selfe, yet what I have found by 
experience, I freely communicate, and doe remaine of this opinion; That in what house any 
execrable facts are committed, the ministring of Angels of God feeling the villany done in that 
house, and the dishonor done to God therein, doe accurse that place or house; which continues so 
long, as there is not a full expiation made by some godly person, for the sinnes committed in that 
house; or untill the time limited by the angry Angel be expired, the house shall remaine a most 
unfortunate house for any to live in: And this which I write, and is inflicted upon houses which 
are insensible, I assuredly know is preformed to the full upon the great and smaller Families of 
this world, &c. How in a naturall way to discharge these curses, Sunt Sigilla & Lamina quae nec 
Scripta Sunt,& ego novi. 


But some for resolution of this Question, say, if the Moon separate at time of the Question from 
Jupiter or Venus, then 


The Resolution of 


stay; if she separate trom an Intortune, remove; or a Fortune in the Ascendant bids you stay; an 
Infortune remove: This heedfully considered with the preceeding Judgment, will instruct any 
indifferent Astrologer to reslove the preceding Question concerning removing from one place to 
another. 


CHAP. XXXVI. 


Of turning the course of Rivers, or bringing Water into 
ones Ground or House, either by Conduit or Pipes. 


In this manner of judgment, you must principally consider the position and strength of Saturn 
and the Moon, and in what aspect they or either of them are in, either with Jupiter or Venus; for if 
you find Saturn Direct, Swift in Motion, Orientall, and the Moon in the 3rd, 11th or 5th house, 
without any aspect either good or evill to Mars, it’s an argument, the Work that is to be 
undertaken will have good successe, be brought to a good conclusion, and that the Querent will 
have prosperity and credit by it, and the matter easily performed; and this the rather, if the Moon 
apply to that Planet who is Lord of the Signe wherein she is, and he receive her in any of his 
Dignities; and if that Planet who is receiver of the Moon be a Fortune, and is ascending in his 
latitude, and in a fixed Signe, the Querent shall not need to feare, but that there will be water 
enough, and that it will run plentifully, and the Water-course will long continue: if there be in the 
10th house either Jupiter or Venus, but especially Jupiter, it’s a sure argument the River, Channel, 
Conduit, Pipe or Water-work shall remaine many a yeer. 


In further consideration of this judgment, if you find Saturn in the 11th, very strong and potent, 
and the Moon in Sextile or Trine unto him, and the Dispositor of the Moon in a fixed Signe, or a 
common one, or the Moon her self e in one of those Signes producing Raine, which are Cancer, 
Leo, Aquarius, Pisces. 


All these arguments, that in the work you are in hand with, you shall have a good Current, and 
plenty of Water; but if you find an infortunate Planet in the 10th, it’s probable your Pipes will 


break, your Water-course be subject to ruptures or breaking downe of the Banks, the Water will 
not run constantly, that the Plot is ill laid, nor is there any successe promised to the undertaker or 
undertakers, by that present imployment. 


CHAP. XXXVITI. 


Of Treasure lying hid in the Ground, or to be 
digged out of the Earth. 


The resolution of this Question is various, according to the nature of its propasall, or according to 
the nature and quality of the thing enquired after, viz. whether Money, Plate or Jewels, or things 
easily movable, or for Treasure long since obscured or hid, the Querent not knowing what it is: 
or if it be, whether there be any Mine of Gold, Silver or Iron, or any other minerals in the 
Ground, Mannor or Lordship now questioned; then it is requisite to know whether the Querent 
did hide or obscure this Treasure now enquired after, or whose it was, or what relation the party 
that did so had unto him, or whether that he aske in a generall way of Treasure hid, not being 
able to discover either when, where, or whose, or what it is? 


If the Querent did hide his own Plate, Money or Jewels in any part of his Ground, or in his 
house, and hath forgotten whereabouts, you must herein observe the Signe of the 2nd house, the 
Lord thereof, what Signe and quarter of Heaven he is in, as also, the Signe of the 4th and his 
Lord, and what quarter of Heaven they signifie: the Lord of the 2nd and of the 4th in Angles, the 
Plate is still in the house, or in the ground, and not removed; but if these Planets be not in 
Angles, but an Infortune, without dignities, be either in the 4th or 7th, there’s then either part of 
it, or all removed and made away; and if your Figure promise, that your Goods are not removed, 
to find in what part they are, have recourse to the first Chapter of this house concerning things 
hid, &c. 


If the question be concerning Treasure absolutely, without knowledge whose or what it was, viz. 
whether there be any in the 


The Resolution of 


place or ground suspected, yea or no; observe in the Figure whether Jupiter or Venus or North 
Node be in the 4th house, there’s then probability of Treasure being there; if they be there and in 
their owne houses, the matter is without dispute, and you may be sure there is Treasure, or 
something of value in the house or ground suspected; or if you find either Saturn or Mars in any 
of their owne houses, Direct, and without Impediment, and in the 4th, there is also Treasure, or if 
you find Venus in Taurus in the 4th, not labouring with any misfortune, it’s probable there is 
Treasure there, for you must know there is no Planet unfortunate, when he is in his owne house, 
or essentially dignified, and a Significator. 


If you are ignorant of the nature and quality of the Treasure, or thing obscurred, then see to the 
Planet who signifieth the Treasure, and consider if he be Lord of the 7th house and examine his 
nature and property, if he be so; if he be not Lord of the 7th, joyne the Lord of the 7th in 
judgment with him, so frame a mixture for the quality of the thing. 


But if that Planet who is Significator of the Treasure be not Lord of the 7th or have affinity with 
him, then absolutely take the Lord of the 7th to signifie the nature and Species of the Treasure; 
who if he be the Sun, and he in his house or exaltation, there is Gold there, or precious Stones or 
Jewels of that colour, or neer to the colour of the Sun. 


And if the Question were, Whether there were a good Mine yea or no? the place considered, it’s 
like there is; if the Sun be not so well dignified, and yet signifie the Treasure, it’s then somewhat 
very precious, and neere to Gold in goodnesse. 


If the Moon be in her owne house or exaltation, and be Lady of the 7th, the Treasure is Silver, 
Plate, Crystal or Jewels &c. of the colour she is of, &c. 


If Mars be the Lord of the 7th, and so dignified, he shewes, the thing sought after may be Brasse 
or Glasse, or some Curiosities or Engine of Iron &c. but if he be weak, perhaps you may find 
some old rusty Iron, Candlesticks, Kettles &c. If the Question were about the Iron-stone, it’s 
probable it will prove good Iron- 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


stone, and make good Iron. If Saturn be Lord of the 7th, and fortified as before specified, there’s 
some Antiquities of great account, or ancient Monuments of men long since deceased, some 
Urne, &c. or there are some things wrapt up in old blacke Cloaths, or woodden Boxes: and if the 
Question were concerning any Mine or quarry of Stone, then it’s very probable there is a rich 
Mine of Coles, if the Question were concerning Coles, or of good Stone, if the Question were of 
it: but if Saturn be weak, and ill dignified, then neither is the Mine a rich one, or can it be 
wrought without much expense of Treasure; whether it be full of water, or what may be the 
impediment, you must require from the Signe he is in, well considering what was formerly said 
in this Chapter. 


If Jupiter be Lord of the 7th and essentially fortified, there is Silver or very rich Cloth, and great 
store of it, or Tyn, &c. 


If Venus be Lady of the 7th, she intimates curious Householdstuffe, costly Jewels, or that fine 
Linnen is there hid.. 


If Mercury be Significator, he prenotes some Pictures, Medals, Writings, Books, some pretty 
Toyes are obscured, or are the Treasure looked after.. 


If the Querent shall obtaine the Treasure hid. 


If the Planet who Signifies the Treasure or thing hid, doth apply to the Lord of the Ascendant, or 
if there be mutuall reception or translation, or collation of light and nature between them, it’s 
probable the Querent shall obtaine the matter sought after; if the aspect be by Square or 
Opposition, then not without difficulty and much labour; and the more assuredly, if they be in a 
fixed Signe, and posited in the Querents 2nd house, or in the Ascendant, either of the Luminaries 
placed in the Ascendant and not unfortunated, gives great faculty in the Work; but if neither of 
them be in the Ascendant, or behold it, but be both in cadent houses, there remaines little hopes 
in the matter: When Part of Fortune is in the Ascendant, and also his Lord or Dispositor, it 
promises acquisition of the Treasure: but if the Lord of Part of Fortune be cadent, and both the 
Lights, especially the Moon, and have no aspect to the Part of Fortune, 


The Resolution of 


or the Lord of the Ascendant behold not the Ascendant I can give the Querent then no hope of 
obtaining the Treasure or thing hid: Alkindus giveth this generall rule concerning Treasure, or 
anything obscured in the ground; Erect your Figure aright, consider the severall aspects of the 
Planets, if there be in the Ascendant, or in any Angle a Fortune, say, there is Treasure in the 
ground, and that the thing hid is still in the ground, the quality, price, esteem thereof, shall be 
according to the potency, vertue or debility of the Fortune. 


If you find the thing hid to be unremoved, then he proceeds and saith, behold the Lord of the 
Ascendant and the Moon, if there be any good aspects betwixt them, and that Fortune which 
signified the Treasure to be there, viz. a good aspect and reception, he that demands the question 
shall then have the thing enquired after, &c. He further says, that fixed Signes shew the thing is 
hid in the Earth, common Signes in or neer a Wall, moveable Signes on high, or in the covering 
of houses: whether it lye deep in the earth or not, consider if the Planet Significator, be in the 
beginning, middle or neer the end of the Signe; if he be newly entered the Signe, the Commodity 
is not deep, but shallow, neer the upper part of the earth; the further the Planet is in the Signe, the 
deeper, when you would dig, let not the Infortunes be angular, but if possible, the Significators 
applying by Sextile or Trine to the Lord of the 2nd house, and the Moon seperating from the 
Significator of the Treasure, and applying to the Lord of your Ascendant 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. XXXVI. 


If I should purchase Master B. his houses. 


1 Mar-163 
6 Hor: P M: 
fis diet D) 





The Inheritance of the house wherein at this present 1647, I live, and some others being proffered 
me to buy 1634. I had a desire to know if I should deal with the Seller and procure Moneys in 
convenient time to pay for the Purchase, (my owne Money being in such hands as I could not 
call it in under six moneths warning) being desirous, I say, to purchase the said houses, and fully 
resolved upon it, I took my own Question my selfe, at what time I found my mind was most 
perplexed and solicitous about it; the time of my Quere to my selfe fell out according to the 
position of Heaven aforesaid. 


The Resolution of 


The Signe Ascending is Libra, the degree of the Signe is the same wherein Jupiter was in my 
Radix; I looked upon that as a good Omen in the first place.. 


Venus is for my selfe, the Sun locally placed in the 7th is for the Seller; the Sun receives Venus 
in his Exaltation; besides, Venus is neer the cusp of the 7th, and no other Planet in the 7th Sun 
excepted, which signified, there was at present no other purchaser about it but my selfe: the Sun 
so exalted and angular prenoted the Seller to be high in his Demands, (and so he was) nor was 
he necessitated to depart with it: finding, I say, my Significator received of Sun, and so neer to 
the cusp of the Angle of the West, it was an argument I should proceed further in the matter, 
notwithstanding Venus her many Debilities; for as I found Sun Lord of the 7th, so also was he 
Lord of the 11th, signifying my hopes should not be frustrated: besides, Venus was Applying to 
a Trifle of Saturn, Lord of the 4th, viz. the houses enquired after, and had no abscission or 
frustration ere the perfect aspect; a main strong argument I should buy the houses: and indeed 
both Significators strongly applyed to a Trine aspect viz. Saturn and Venus, for Saturn is 
Retrograde: I also considered the Sun was in perfect Trine with Saturn, the Sun being, as I said, 
Lord of my 11th, and he of the 4th; Saturn has also signification of me, as Querent, because he 
beholds the Ascendant, and therein has exaltation: now whether you consider him, as having 
Dignities in the Ascendant, or as Lord of the 4th, the Lord of the 11th and he Applying unto each 
other by a Trine, argued, assuredly I should proceed further in the matter, and in the end 
conclude for them: The Moon in the next place translating the influence of Mars, who hath 
Dignities in the 7th, to Saturn, having vertue in the Ascendant, though by a Square aspect (yet 
out of Signes of long ascensions) did much facilitate the matter, and argued my going on, and 
probability of contracting, but with some leisure, and slowly, because of the Square aspect; for 
as the Moon is afflicted, and Venus unfortunate, so had I much to doe, and many meetings about 
it; the Seller not abating one penny of the five hundred and sixty pounds, being the first penny 
he demanded: As the Sun is neer to a Sextile aspect of Jupiter, so did a joviall man endeavour to 
procure the purchase unto himselfe (this was after I had begun and before I had concluded); but 
Jupiter is cadent, and in detriment, shewing he should not prevaile, Venus angular and in 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


aspect with Saturn Lord of the thing sought after; and as Sun is Lord of the 11th, which is the Sth 
from the 7th, so a Daughter of the Sellers was my very good friend in this businesse, and suffered 
no interloper to intervene, though some offered fair (to hinder me); for Mars in my 2nd house 
Retrograde, argues I should get none of my owne Monies to supply my occasions; nor did I: 
Jupiter Lord of the Part of Fortune in Sextile with Sun no wayes impedited, but by being in 
detriment, in Sextile Platick with Venus Lady of my Ascendant, shortly entering his exaltation, 
gave me such hopes as I doubted not of procuring Monies when he entered Cancer, and Mars 
became direct, which he did 12 days after, at what time a friend lent me 500 L. The quality of the 
houses are signified by Capricorn the Signe of the 4th, and Saturn Lord of the 4th, who having no 
materiall debilities, except Retrogradation and Cadency, also being in Trine with Sun; the houses 
were really old, but strong and able to stand many yeers. When Venus and Sun came to 
Conjunction in Taurus, that day I bargained, viz. die Venus 25 Aprill following: the 17 of May 
Venus and Moon in Conjunction; I paid 530 £, and my conveyance was Sealed. So that as Venus 
wanted 6 degrees of the body of the Sun, so was it 6 weeks and some dayes from the time of the 
question ere I perfected what the Figure promised; as to the Moles and Scars of my body it does 
exactly agree: for as Venus is in Aries, which represents the face, so have I a Mole on my Cheek 
about the middle or it; and as Libra Ascends, I have one on the reines of my backe, the Moon in 
Virgo Afflicted by Mars, I have a red Mole below my Navell, Jupiter Lord of the 6th in Gemini a 
Masculine Signe, I have a Mole neer my right hand visible on the outside; so have I on the left 
foot, as Pisces the Signe of the 6th does represent. Many things might be considered herein, 
besides what is written; but I feare this book will increase beyond my first intention: Ergo. The 
truth of the matter is, I had a hard bargaine, as the Figure every way considered doth manifest, 
and shall never live to see many of the leases yet in being, expired: and as Venus is in Aries, viz. 
opposite to her owne House, so did I do my self e injury by the Bargaine, I mean in matter of 
Money; but the love I bore to the House I now live in, wherein I lived happily with a good 
Master 


The Resolution of 


full seven yeers, therein obtained my first Wife, and was bountifully blessed by God with the 
Goods of this World therein, made me neglect a small hinderance, nor now, I thanke God, doe I 
repent it; finding Gods blessing in a plentifull measure upon my Labours: yet was I no Taylor or 
Scriverner, as Wharton affirmes, or indeed any profession at all; nor was my Master a Taylor, or 
my Wife a Scriveners Widdow. 


Of the FIFTH HOUSE, and its 
Questions 
CHAP. XXXIX. 


If one shall have Children, yea or no? 


When this question is demanded by a man or woman, long before marriage, or by some ancient 
Batchelour or Maid, Whether they shall have any Child or Children, yea or not? herein generally 
you are to consider, whether the Signe upon the 5th, or Ascending, be of those we call Fruitfull, 
yea or no, (viz.. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces) and whether the Lord of the Ascendant (be the Signe 
what it will) or the Moon be in aspect with the Lord of the 5th house, and that aspect be either 
Conjunction, Sextile, Trine or Square (though Conjunction is not properly an aspect) which if it 
be so, and the Planet to whom the Lord of the 5th doth Apply, or is in aspect with, be free from 
Combustion, and other Accidentall or Essentiall misfortunes, it’s an argument the good old 
Batchelour or stale Maid, or whoever propounds the Question, shall have Children or Issue ere 
they dye; In like case judge, if the Lord of the 5th be in the Ascendant, or else the Moon, or the 
Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon apply to the Lord of the 5th, yet if there be rendering of 
vertue or light one unto another, or translation of collection by or from the principall 
Significators, you may still continue your judgment, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


that the Querent shall have issue, but not so scone, as if it had been forseen by the first manner of 
judgment. After all this, have respect to the Planet who is receiver of the Disposition of the 
Significators; who if he be clear from misfortune or affliction, viz. from Retrogradation, 
Combustion, or Cadency in House, it gives great hopes of issue.. See also if that Planet from 
whom the Moon is separated the Lord of the 5th Signe from the Signe wherein the Planet is to 
whom the Moon applies, and both these Planets have any aspects to each other; that also doth 
testify the party shall have Children or a Childe. If no aspect happen betwixt them, it’s not then 
likely he will have any; and yet some say, that is the above named Planets or Significators be not 
in any Aspect, yet if the Planet to whom the Moon Applies be in an Angle, the Querent may have 
Issue. 


If a Woman aske, whether she may conceive? 


Many times a Woman married, having been long without Children, may inquire, whether she is 
like to Conceive, yea or no? In this Question you are to consider: 


If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 7th, or the Lord of the Sth in the Ist, or the Lord of the Ist 
in the Sth, or if the Lord of the Sth be in the 7th, or the Lord of the 7th in the 5th, or the Moon 
with him, or good Planets in the Ascendant, or with the Lord of the 5th, or in any of the Angles; 
she may then conceive: 

but if none of these testimonies concurre, and you find barren Signes and ill Planets to be in the 
former places, she neither is at present conceived, or will thereafter conceive. If good and bad 
Planets be mixed together, she may perhaps conceive or have Children, but they will not live: If 
Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces be in the Ascendant or 5th, she may have Children; but if Leo or Virgo 
be there, she neither is at present, or hardly after will be with Child. When women have been 
long without Children, and propound such a Question, see if their Nativity did not originally 
deny Children.. 


At what time, or how long it may be before she have a Childe? 


If you finde that according to naturall causes she may have a Childe or Children; and the Querent 
is desirious to know neer 


The Resolution of 


what time: See then where you find the Lord of the 5th house, viz. if in the ascendant or Ist 
house; then judge the Ist yeere; if in the 2nd house, the 2nd yeere; if in the 10th house, the 3rd 
yeere; if in the 7th house, the 4th yeere; if in the 4th house, the Sth yeere. And herein you must 
be carefull in considering what Signe the Lord of the 5th house is in; for the Swiftnesse of a 
Planet in a moveable Signe doth somewhat hasten the time; a double bodied Signe doth not 
manifest so soon; fixed Signes prolong the matter; however, this is worthy of your consideration, 
that let the Significator be in what Signe he will be, yet if he be swift in motion and direct, he 
doth make the more haste in performance of the businesse he is a Significator in, and causeth the 
matter sooner to be accomplished.. 


Whether the Querent shall have Children, 
be he Man or Woman that asketh? 


Behold the Ascendant, and if fortunate Planets behold the same, and the Lord thereof be in the 
Ascendant, or in the 10th, 11th or 5th house, and you finde Jupiter also well placed together with 
that Planet who is Lord of the Triplicity ascending, and he be not Combust or Retrograde; judge 
then, if the Man aske the Question, he may have Children, or is capable of getting them. If a 
woman inquires, say, she may Conceive, and is not naturally barren. If the Lord of the Ascendant 
be in the 4th or 7th, and Jupiter in a good house of Heaven, do you say, the party shall have a 
Childe a long time after the asking of the Question.. 


But if you finde the Ascendant afflicted, or infortunated by the Malevolent Planets, and the Lord 
of the Ascendant in an evill place or House of heaven, and Jupiter Cadent, or in the 8th or 
Combust, or not fully elongated from the Sunne-Beames; then you shall judge he will have few 
Children, and they sickly, hardly able to live.. It’s also a great Signe of non-conception, or no 
capacity to conceive, when the Moon is unfortunate.. If you find a Fortunate Planet in the 5th 
house, or having a benigne aspect to the Cuspe thereof; it gives hope and strong testimony of 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


having a Childe in a little compasse of time; but if an infortune be in the Sth ill dignified, 
Combust, Retrograde, slow of motion, &c. the Querent will have no Children; but if the 
infortune be direct and swift, Orientall, and in any of his essentiall dignities, he shall signifie 
Children; the more Children if Jupiter, Venus or Sun be in Sextile or Trine with him out of good 
houses: you must ever remember, that the neerer a Fortune is to the Ascendant, the sooner the 
Querent may expect Children, the more remote the longer time must be allowed. Others observe 
this rule following, That if Jupiter be in the Ascendant or 5th, and in a Signe which is not barren, 
it’s an argument the Querent may have a Childe; there is also much strength in the Lord of the 
house; for if he be angular with reception of the Lord of that Angle where he is, or in the 11th or 
5th with the like reception, it is a sure testimony of having Children. In all Questions concerning 
Children, be carefull of the age of the Querent, and some other natural or hereditary infirmity 
incident to the Querent, and seldome conclude without two testimonies. 


If a Man shall have Children by his Wife yea or not, or of 
any other Woman whom he nominates. 


When it is demanded of you by any Man, Whether he shall have any Children by the Wife he 
hath, or the Woman he mentions; or if a Woman aske if she shall have Issue or Children by such 
a Man. Behold the Ascendant, his Lord and the Moon, and if the Lord of the Ascendant or the 
Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 5th, you may judge he or she shall have Issue by the party 
inquired of; if this be not, then see if any translation be from the Lord of the 5th to the Lord of 
the Ascendant; that’s an argument of having Children after some space of time: If the Lord of the 
Ascendant or the Moon be in the 5th house, he or she may have Children, or the Lord of the 5th 
in the Ascendant: if none of these be, consider if the Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon, and the 
Lord of the 5th be not joyned to a Planet more ponderous then themselves; for he collecting both 
their lights, shall be the receiver of their disposition, and shall signifie whether the 


The Resolution of 


Childe or Children (if any be) shall live or not; if he be not impedited the Children then shall 
live, but if he be Retrograde, Combust, Peregrine, or otherwise unfortunate, neither will the 
Children live long, or will the Parents take comfort of these Children. After this, consider Jupiter, 
who naturally signifieth Children, if he be in the Ascendant, 3rd, 5th, 9th or 11th house, free 
from all manner of misfortune; you may affirme the Woman shall shortly conceive, perhaps upon 
the first congresse or coition after the asking of the Question, or a little after, and the matter 
seems as good as done. 


If Venus be in the 5th no way impedited, and some other Fortune be there besides, it hastens the 
time, and she will conceive very suddenly. But if Jupiter be in the aforesaid places impedited, 
say, that either she is not conceived, or if she be, it will not come to perfection, for the Woman 
shall suffer abortion. In like manner if Venus be unfortunate by Saturn or Mars, or be under the 
Sun-Beames, or Combust, the Woman is not conceived, unlesse a Fortune be in the 5th house, 
and then she is more assuredly with Childe, or shall be shortly; yet you may justly feare she will 
suffer mischance ere the birth. 


If either Saturn or Mars, or especially South Node be in the Sth, or the two former malevolents 
cast their Opposition to the 5th, it seems the woman is not with childe; and verily the Square of 
the Infortunes to the 5th house seems to hinder conception. 


Whether She is With Child or Not. 


A woman mistrusting her selfe to be with Child, and desirous to know the truth; if she aske the 
Question of thee, then give Answer, having well considered your Figure, erected according to the 
time of her demand, viz. as these following rules direct you. 


[She is. ] 
The Lord of the Ascendant or Moon behold the Lord of the 5th with any aspect or translation. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon be in the 5th house, free from the malevolent aspect 
of the Infortunes and direct; and herein you must not wholly rely upon Saturn and Mars or the 
South Node to be the onely Unfortunate Planets, (I meane Saturn and Mars for Planets, Not 
Nodes) you must consider the position of 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Heaven at the time of erecting your Scheame, and take any evill aspects of the Lord of the 6th, 
8th or 12th, be he what Planet he will, to be an affliction, if he have Square or Opposition to the 
Lord of the 5th, or Lord of the Ascendant, or the Moon. 


Jupiter generally in the Ist, 5th, 11th or 7th, not in aspect to Saturn or Mars, they being slow in 
motion or Retrograde. 


The Lord of the Ascendant or Lord of the 5th house aspecting a Planet in an Angle with 
reception, and rendring up his venture unto him; if the Moon be in reception with any Planet in 
an Angle, that is, essentially Fortified, else not; for accidentall dignities in this manner of 
judgment, giveth hopes, but not reall assurance. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant behold the Ascendant with an amicable aspect, out of any good 
House; or if the Moon be in the 7th, and behold the Lord of the 7th in the 11th, or if the Moon be 
in the 11th, and behold the Lord of the 7th in the 7th. 


The Lord of the Ascendant received in either House, Triplicity or Exaltation, and the receiver of 
the Lord of the Ascendant having alike dignity in the House, Triplicity, Exaltation, or Term of the 
received, viz.. Lord of the Ascendant. 


The Moon giving vertue, or rendring her light to a Planet in the 5th house, or having essentiall 
dignities in the Sth. 


The Moon applying to the Lord of the Ascendant or Lord of the 5th in the Ist or 10th house, and 
he not Cadent from his owne House or exaltation;(a Planet Cadent from his owne House) where 
you must understand this generall rule concerning a Planet his being Cadent from his owne 
House, is this, viz. if Mars be in Aries, it being his own House, let him then be in any of the 12 
Houses, he shall be said to be Angular as to his being in Aries: if Mars be in Taurus he is 
Succeeding or in Succeedant House in that way: if Mars be in Gemini he is then Cadent as from 
his owne House; and so forth in the rest: for ever a Planet is Angular in any of his owne Houses. 


[These added to other testimonies.] 
The Dispositor of the Moon and the Lord of the houre in Angles; Mars in the Signe of the 7th 
House, she is newly conceived (this is to be understood if he be well Fortified:) Saturn in the 7th, 
the party is quicke, or her Infant moveth: Jupiter in the 7th, she is impregnated of a male childe 
Sagittarius or Pisces in 


The Resolution of 


the 7th, she is with childe of a Girle; this must be understood when all the rest of the 
Significators are equall, and ballance not the judgment, then if you finde Sagittarius or Pisces in 
the 7th, you may judge the party shall have a Girle. Besides, the Moon in the 5th applying to 
Jupiter or Venus argue the same. You may ever predict true Conception, if the Signe ascending be 
fixed, and a Fortune therein placed, or the Lord of the 5th strong in the Ascendant or 10th House. 


If the Man aske unknowne to the Woman. 


[She is.] If the Lord of the 5th behold a Planet in an Angle with reception, or if the Lord of the 
Houre, Lord of the 5th, Jupiter, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mercury or North Node be in the 5th 
Fortunate; or if the Lord of the 5th be in the 7th, or Lord of the 7th in the Sth. 


[She is NOT.] If Jupiter or Venus be impedited, if Venus be joyned to Saturn or Mars, and they 
either Combust, Retrograde or slow in motion, or in Leo, Virgo or Capricorn, Saturn or Mars in 
the 5th, in Square or Opposition to the Lord of the 5th, denotes no conception, or danger of 
abortion, if other Significators be more prevalent then they, and give testimony or conception. 


The Lord of the Ascendant joyned to a Retrograde Planet; or one in a Cadent House, or received 
by a Retrograde or Combust Planet, no aspect or translation of light between the Lord of the Sth 
and Lord of the Ascendant; judge by the major testimonies. 


[Male or Female.] The Lord of the Ascendant, Lord of the Sth, Lord of the Houre Masculine, 
and the Moon in a Masculine Signe, degrees, or Quarter, doe note a Male, the contrary a Female. 


[Whether it shall live?] The Lord of the 5th Retrograde, Combust, or Cadent from his House of 
Exaltation, is a presage of Death, &c. e contra. 


The Lord of the Ascendant, Lord of the Houre, Lord of the Sth, all or most of them unfortunate, 
is an argument of death; Saturn, Mars or South Node in the Ist or 5th house, and Retrograde, 
denote the same. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Twinnes. Where suspition is had of Twins: if upon that Question you find the Signe ascending 
Common, and a Fortune in it, or the Sth or Ist house, and Sun and Moon in common Signes, or 
the Signe of the 5th one, and Lord of the 5th in a common Signe, you may judge Twins. 


Other Judgements concerning Womens being 
with childe or not. 
CHAP. XL. 


Whether a Woman be with Child or not. 


When a woman asks this Question, have respect to the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon who 
shall signifie the person of the Querent, the 5th house and Lord thereof shall show the 
Conception, if any be: If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 5th, or Lord of the 5th in the 
Ascendant, free from all manner of impediments, it argues the Woman is conceived with child; 
so also if the Lord of the Ascendant his vertue or disposition be translated to any Planet in an 
Angle, the more certaine you may judge; if he to whom the Lord of the Ascendant commits his 
Disposition, be received of the Lord of the Ascendant by him; but if the Planet to whom the Lord 
of the Ascendant hath committed his Disposition, be in a cadent house, it notes the Woman hath 
taken griefe; and whereas she thinks she may be conceived of a Child, it’s more like to be a 
Sicknesse; and if the Conception should hold, t’will come to no good end, especially if the 
Ascendant be Aries or Cancer, Libra or Capricorn, or if any of the malevolent Planets be in an 
Angle, or else South Node, for usually South Node in the 5th, shewes abortion, in the Ascendant 
extreame feare and mistrust of it; but if the ponderous Planet to whom the Lord of the Ascendant 
commits his Disposition be in good house, viz. in the 2nd, 11th or 9th, not in Conjunction with 
the Infortunes, and the Moon be free, it notes the Conception shall come to a good end, and the 
Woman safely delivered: so as also if the Lord of the 5th, who 


The Resolution of 


is naturall Signiticator of Children, be in the Ascendant free from misfortune, viz. Retrogradation 
or Combustion, or not with South Node, 


If a Woman doe Conceive with Childe of more 
than one? 


To resolve this Question, see if either Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces be ascending, then see 
if both Jupiter and Venus be in the Signe ascending, or in the Signe of the 5th, or be in any of the 
12 Signes (except Leo) it’s probable she goeth with 2 Children; and if the North Node be with 
Jupiter and Venus in the Ascendant or Sth, it’s possible she may have 3; but if none of these be in 
the Ascendant or 5th, behold if these Planets cast their Sextile or Trine to the degree ascending, 
or to the cusp of the 5th house; it’s also probable she may conceive, or is with Child with more 
then one: but if a fixed Signe possesse the Ascendant or 5th house, or any moveable Signes, and 
the Sun and Moon be therein, viz. either in fixed or moveable Signes, and in the 5th or Ist house, 
it’s a certain argument the Woman is with child but with one: The Astrologer must not rashly 
adventure his Judgment without well considering his rules, or without knowledge had, whether it 
be not naturall or usuall for some of her family to bring at one Birth more than one. 


If Male or Female. 


See to the Ascendant, the Lord that Signe, the Signe of the 5th and Lord of the 5th, and whether 
the Signes be Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius or Aquarius; these Signes import a Male, the 
other 6 Signes a Female: If the Lord of the Ascendant be in a Masculine Signe, and the Lord of 
the 5th in a Feminine, then have recourse to the Moon, and see what Signe she is in, and if she 
apply to the Planet in a Masculine Signe, then she gives her testimony to that Significator who is 
in a Masculine Signe, and you may judge the party is with Child of a Boy or Man-Child. 


Masculine Planets. 
Masculine Planets are always Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun; Venus and the Moon are Feminine, 
and Mercury as he is in aspect or Conjunction with a Masculine or Feminine Planet, so is he of 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


either sex accordingly; but when he is Orientall of the Sun, he is reputed Masculine; when 
Occidentall, then Feminine. 


How long the Woman hath been Conceived? 


In this case have regard to the Moon and the Lord of the 5th and the Lord of the hour, and see 
which of all these is neerest from the separation of any Planet, and well consider him, and from 
what manner of aspect this separation is; if he be separated by a Trine aspect, say, she is in the 
5th moneth of her Conception, or the 3rd, if the aspect was a Sextile, say, she is in the 2nd or 6th 
month; if the separation was by a Square aspect, she is in the 4th of her Conception; if is was by 
an Opposition, she has been Conceived seven moneths; if it were by a Conjunction, then she hath 
beene Conceived one moneth. 


Of the time when the Birth will be? 


In judging about what time the Querent may be delivered, you are to consider, When Mars and 
Sun are in Conjunction with the Lord of the 5th, and with the Moon and Lord of the houre, or the 
more part of them, and that time of their Conjunction shall shew the hour of Birth; help your 
selfe herein by that Fortune which in the Question shall behold the “Part of Children”,viz. when 
he shall Apply to that Quarter of Heaven where the “Part of Children” is, and direct that ‘Part of 
Children’, by the Ascensions to the degree of the 5th house, and to the degree of Jupiter, and to 
his aspects, especially if Jupiter is between the Part of Children and the 5th house, because when 
that Part doth apply it self to the degrees of ascensions, and when it is within the Orbes of those 
degrees, is the time of delivery, giving to every degree one day. 


Behold also the Disposition or application of that Planet to whom the Part of Children is 
directed, before the Conjunction of the Lord of the 5th with the Lord of the ascendant, in the 
ascendant or in the 5th house, because about that time will be the time of birth. See also when the 
Significator of the Question doth 


The Resolution of 


change his form, viz. when he removes out of one Signe into another, then is also like to be the 
time of the birth: or behold the Lord of the 5th, how far he is removed from the cusp of the Sth, 
and give to every Signe | month, and help yourself with your other testimonies, and judge 
according to the major part of those Significators that do most nearly concur. 


The Part of Children is taken day and night from Mars to Jupiter and projected from the 
Ascendant 


Whether the Birth Shall be by Day or by Night? 


In this manner of judgment, behold the Ascendant and his Lord, the Moon, Planet in the 
Ascendant, Lord of the 5th, Signe of the Sth; if the major part of the Significators be in Diurnal 
Signes, the birth will be by day; if the contrary happen, then in the night. If the Significators 
disagree amongst themselves, take him that is Essentially most strong, and judge by him; or else 
consider the number of degrees that the Planet you judge by is distant from the cusp of the 5th 
house, so many degrees as is their distance each from other, do you project from the degree 
ascending, and see where your number determines; and if it end in Diurnal Signe, she will be 
brought to bed by day; if contrary then in the night: by this means also you may judge of the 
quality of the sex, by considering the Lord of the 5th, the Moon, the Lord of the Hour, and the 
Part of Children before mentioned, and his Dispositor; if the major part hereof be in Masculine 
Signes, it’s a Male the woman goes with, and the birth will be by day; but if the testimonies be 
equal, the birth will be by twilight. 


Some say if the Question be, Whether a woman be with Child or not; consider the Lord of the 
Asc, Lord of the 5th, and Dispositor of the Moon, and the Moon herself; if any application be 
between these Planets, and the Moon be in a Common Signe, and the Ascendant one, and the 
Significators in Angles, or if in the Ascendant or 2nd there be a Fortunate Planet, she is with 
Child, otherwise not. 


Or if by chance a Planet Direct be in Conjunction with the Moon, it shews the same; Jupiter and 
Venus in the Sth, or Moon in the 
all manner of QUESTIONS. 


5th, applying to Jupiter or Venus, or a Planet in Cazimi of the Sun, the Planet being a Fortune, is 
a strong argument of being with Child; but if instead of Fortunes you find the Infortunes so 
placed as abovesaid, it’s no signe of Conception; or if there be assurance of Conception before 
the Question be asked, it’s a pregnant proofe of abortion, and if you find Mars to be the 


Infortunate Planet afflicting, she will miscarry by a Flux of blood; if Saturn afflict, then by 
Sicknesse, Feare, Frights, or by too much aboundance of wind and water. 


If you are demanded of the state of the Mother, and how, or in what case she shall be in after the 
Birth? behold the Moon, and observe to what Planet she applies, and according to the last 
application she hath before she goe out of the Signe she is in, it shall be with the Mother; so 
observe that Planet she last applies unto, his Nature, place in the Heaven and Fortitude, so shall it 
be with the Mother after Birth: I have in my practice observed this concerning the safety of the 
Mother, and her condition at the Birth, if it were evident she were with Child; and I found the 
Ascendant free, and the Lord of the Ascendant neither separated from a bad aspect of the Lord of 
the 8th or 4th, or applying to any aspect of the Lords of those two houses, or if I found the Moon 
Fortunately Applying to either of the Fortunes, or to the Sun, or indeed to any good aspect of the 
Infortunes, I never doubted the life of the Mother, and I remember not that I ever failed. 


If the Lord of the 5th were in the 8th, and had no essential dignities in the Sign, and had any 
aspects good or ill to the Lord of the 8th or 4th, I usually judged the Infant would not live long 
after the Birth, and I ever found the prediction true; and you shall very seldome observe any 
Infant borne upon the very change of the Moon, but he dyes shortly, seldom outlives the next full 
Moon; or if he or she be borne at the moment of the Full Moon it’s very probable the Infant dyes 
upon the next New Moon; for as there is no light in earth but what these two Planets give, so 
neither doe I beleeve any life can be permanent, when both these at the time of birth are either of 
themselves, or by Infortunes afflicted, &c. 


The Resolution of 


Whether Unity is like to be betwixt the Infant and 
the Parent, or betwixt the Parent and any 
of his Children of elder Yeers. 


This were better resolved from the Nativity, but because few among us are capable of judging 
one, I adventure somewhatby an Horary Question: The Question being then demanded as 
aforesaid, behold the Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon, the Lord of the 5th; if you find reception 
and application betwixt the Lord of the 5th, and Lord of the Ascendant, and this in the 10th, 11th, 
Sth, 3rd, 9th, Ist or 2nd houses, there will be Love and Unity betwixt them; or if Jupiter or Venus 
doe behold the cusps of both houses, there will be Unity and Concord betwixt them. 


I doe in these manner of demands observe onely thus much; I presently consider if either Saturn, 
Mars or South Node be in the 5th, for if those two Planets, or any Planet who is posited in the 
house be Peregrine; I say, that the Childe will be untoward, very averse, and not easily regulated 
by his Parents directions, and that the fault is wholly in the Child, or young Man or Maid, 
according to the Question propounded. If I find Saturn, Mars or South Node in the Ascendant, I 
tell the parents that enquires, the fault is their owne, that the Child is not more observant unto 
them; and if Mars be there, I say, they are too much lordly over him or her, or their Children, and 
over-awe them, and keep them in too much subjection; if Saturn be the Planet impediting, I say, 
they are too austere, dogged, and too much close-fitted, and expect more service, duty, obedience 
or attendance from them then is fitting in a Christian liberty, that they give their Children no 
encouragement, or shew them any countenance, &c. If South Node be there in the Ascendant, I 
blame the Parent enquiring, and tell him, he is too jealous, and too mistrustfull of the actions of 
his or their Children, that he believes lyes and calumnies against his or their Children, that simple 
people foole him in his humour, and besot him with vaine reports, &c. 


You may apply the last part of Judgment to any other Question as well as this, with very good 
successe, as I have done many times, and thereby have reconciled the father or mother and their 
Child. 


But by all means I desire all Astrologers to deal fairly and honestly, let the fault be where it will 
be, &c. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. XLI. 


Of Embassadours or Messengers. 


The Lord of the Sth shall represent the person of the Embassadour, the Moon shall herein be 
admitted to have signification, that Planet to whom either the Lord of the 5th house or the Moon 
doe apply unto, shall shew the cause of his Embassage, or you may take judgment from both 
those Planets to whom they apply. 


If you find the application is from a Fortune by a Square or Opposition or Conjunction, and if 
there be reception betwixt them, or collection or translation of light by any Planet, and that 
Planet be either Lord of the 10th, or in the 10th, you may say, the cause of his Embassage is unto 
the King upon a meer point of honour, or upon some high and great Businesse, or concerning a 
very great and urgent occasion: If the Planet who is received, or who collects or translates the 
vertue of one to another, be Lord of the 11th, he comes to renew the League of Friendship 
betwixt the two Nations: If the Lord of the Sth be Unfortunate in the 7th, and the Lord of the 
Ascendant and he be in Square or Opposition, and Mars have any malicious aspects to them 
both, or to either of them, there is then no likelihood of Unity, or to be any content in the 
Embassage to be delivered, or both parties will find triviall meanes to discontent one another, so 
that no solid peace may be expected from any act performed or to be performed by this Treaty or 
Embassage, rather probability of falling at varience; whether the Embassador will deal fairly or 
prove false, or shuffle in his Undertakings, you must know that Judgment from the well or ill 
affection of the Lord of the 5th house, and from that aspect he shall cast to the Ascendant or Lord 
thereof, or to the Lord of the 11th; observe also in what 


The Resolution of 


house the Lord of the 5th is in, for if he be in the 10th, and there dignified essentially, the 
Embassador will stand too much upon the Honour of his owne Prince, and hath an overweening 
conceit of his owne abilities: If Mercury and the Lord of the 5th be in Square or Opposition, the 
Embassador hath not a Commission large enough, or shall be countermanded or contradicted 
either by some Missive from his Prince, or the Secretary playes the knave with him, &c. or his 
Message will be ill taken. 


Observe this generally, if the Significator of the Embassadour have any Sextile or Trine aspect 
(or be he well dignified or not) either to the Lord of the Ascendant, or Lord of that Signe under 
which the Kingdome you are in is subject, the Embassadour himself wishes well to the 
Kingdome, and will performe his trust with much sincerity. 


Of A Messenger Sent For or Upon Any Errand For Money. 


Herein give the Ascendant and his Lord to him that sends, the 7th house and his Lord unto him to 
whom the Messenger is sent, the Message to the Moon, the Lord of the 5th to the Messenger and 
managing of the Business: If you find the Lord of the 5th separated from the Lord of the 7th, and 
applying to the Lord of the Ascendant, you may judge the Messenger has effected the thing he 
went about, is departed from him, and returning home againe: 

If the Lord of the 5th be separated from the Lord of the 2nd house, he brings Money with him, 
whether a Fortune or Infortune be Lord of that house; and you must understand, that the answer 
which the Messenger brings is of the nature of that house, whose Lord is the Planet from whom 
the Lord of the 5th is separated, and of the Planet himselfe; so that if you find his separation from 
a good Planet, it gives hopes of a good Answer, the contrary when separation is from the 
Infortunes: If the Significator of the Messenger doe apply by Square or Opposition to an 
Infortune, before he is separated from the Lord of the 7th, you may then acquaint the Querent, 
the his Messenger has had some impediment in effecting his Businesse by the party to whom he 
was sent, and that he also sustained some hinderance in his Journey, ere he 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


came to the place to which he was sent: but if this application to an Infortune happen after that 
the Lord of the 5th was separated from the Lord of the 7th, the Messenger will have delayes or 
misfortune in his returning home againe; if you find an Infortune in the 9th, he will hardly travell 
safe for Theeves; if a Fortune be in the 9th, judge his going and returning will be safe. 


Concerning the sending of Foot-Posts, Lackeys, &c. about any Message or Errand, whether they 
shall come to their Journeys end, or safe to the place unto which they are sent, behold the Lord of 
the Ascendant and the Moon, and if either one or the other be in the seventh, or one or both apply 
to the Lord of the 7th, he then went safe to his journeys end; ever judge in this manner of 
question according to the nature of the Fortune or Infortune, and how he is dignified in the 
Heavens, what is his Vertue, what his Debility, and accordingly frame your judgment according 
to Fortunes, or they dwelling or being in Significant Houses, portend good, the Infortunes the 
contrary. 


If there be reception betwixt the Lord of the 5th and 7th, and any amicable aspects, your 
Messenger was well received and entertained by him to whom he went, though the application be 
by Square or Opposition, yet he was well received; but the party sought after, framed some 
excuse, or framed some matter in his owne defence, concerning the thing sent unto him for. For 
your Messengers returne when it shall be; behold if the Lord of the 5th be receded from the Lord 
of the 7th, or applying to the Planet who is his Dispositor, say, he commeth; the time when, is 
found out thus; according to the number of degrees of the application, give Days, Weeks or 
Monthes, according to the nature and length of the Journey, and according to the nature of the 
Signes, viz., either Fixed, Common, or Moveable; if the Significator be Retrograde, the 
Messenger will returne when he comes to be Direct, or according to the number of degrees he 
wants ere he becomes Direct. I doe usually observe this generall rule, when the Lord of the Sth 
comes to a Sextile or Trine of the Lord of the Ascendant, that day, or neer it, the Messenger is 
heard of; or when the Moon separates from the Lord of the Sth to 


The Resolution of 


the Lord of the Ascendant, the Querent shall have intelligence of his Messenger: You 
must know, the application of the Significator to a ponderous Planet, shews more 
certainly the day; use descretion in knowing the length or brevity of the Journey, and by 
what precedes you may be satisfied, 





If The Querent Should Ever Have Children? 





CHAP. XLII. 


Judgment upon the preceding Figure. 


The Ascendant is here Virgo a barren Signe, as you may see page 89 and 96, the Signe 
of the 5th is Capricorn, a Signe of indifferency in this nature of judgment; the Moon is 
in a barren 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Signe; Saturn Lord of the 5th house is Retrograde, and in Sagittarius; Mercury Lord of the 
Ascendant in Gemini; both Saturn and Mercury being in Signes rather barren then fruitfull: 

the Moon in the Termes of Mars, in Square of Saturn Lord of the 5th, Mercury Lord of the 
Ascendant in the Termes of Saturn, afflicted by the presence of Mars, and going to Opposition of 
Saturn, who is Lord of the 6th, as well as of the Sth; South Node also possesseth the Ascendant; a 
strong argument of barrennesse: for these reasons in Astrologie above recited, I delivered this 
Judgment, viz. That the Querent neither had been ever yet conceived, or for any reason in Art 
that I could find, ever would conceive, and that she was naturally barren; for finding the 5th, 10th 
and 4th houses, being the principall Angles of the Figure, Afflicted, I was certaine, the evil 
impediting her Conception had been long upon her, and would also continue. 


Had I found Jupiter either fortunating the cusp of the 5th house, or in any aspect to the Lord of 
the Ascendant, or unto Saturn, or if any reception had been betwixt Saturn and Jupiter or Jupiter 
and Mercury, or any collection of light from Mercury to Saturn, and that Planet so collecting had 
received Saturn or Mercury, I would not have been so peremptory; but when I found no one 
promising testimony, I gave my judgment in the negitive, viz. she should not conceive or ever 
have any children; for whoever considers the positure of Heaven exactly, shall find it is a most 
unfortunate Figure for having children: as the Moon was in Square of Saturn, Lord of the 6th, 
and Mercury Lord of the Ascendant, applying to his Opposition, so was the Querent very sickly, 
and extremely afflicted with the Wind and Chollick in her Belly and small Guts; the South Node 
in the Ascendant shewed very great paine in the Head, so did Mercury in Gemini, being afflicted 
by both the Malevolents, represent extreame grief in the Head, for Mercury in Gemini signifies 
the Head. (see page 119) 


Shee affirmed, that the Moles of her Body did correspond exactly to the Figure of Heaven, viz. 
one Mole close by the Navill, one upon the right Ancle, signified by Aquarius on the cusp of the 
6th; one towards the right Knee on the inner side of the Thigh, represented by Saturn, Lord of the 
6th in Sagittarius, one in or neer the member signified by the Moon in Virgo; and as Mercury 
Lord of the Ascendant is in Gemini, so had the Querent a Scarre or Mole on her right Arme, on 
the outside thereof, &c. 


The Resolution of 


When you find a Question that is so peremptory in the negative, you shall deale discreetly to 
enquire the time of Birth, and set the Figure thereof, and see what corresponding there is betwixt 
the Radix and the Question propounded, and help your selfe in your judgment by discretion; for 
if the Radix affirrme Barrennesse, it’s impossible any promising Horary Question can contradict 
its signification: and usually I have found, that whoever propounds a Question to the Astrologer, 
I meane in their first Question, they have a Signe of the same Triplicity Ascending in their 
Question, agreeable to the nature of the Ascendant in their Nativity, and many times the very self 
same Signe and degree is ascending upon an Horary Question which was ascending in the 
Nativity, as I have many times found by experience; for if Gemini ascend in the Nativity, it’s 
probable upon an Horary Question, either Libra or Aquarius may ascend, which are Signes of the 
same Triplicity. 





If one were with Child of a Male or Female, and about 
what time she should be delivered. 





CHAP. XLIII. 


Judgment upon the Figure beforegoing. 


You may see in the judgments appertaining to this house how to judge of this question; however, 
I did follow the Method succeeding, and considered onely the plurality of testimonies, Masculine 
or Feminine, of the proper Significators, and thereby gave resolution. 


Arguments of a Girl 


Virgo Signe of Ascending Feminine 
Capricorn Signe of 5" Feminine 
Moon in a Signe Feminine 
Mercury Lord of Ascendant Feminine 


W/Venus, a Planet 


Significations of a Male Child 





Mercury Lord of Ascendant Masculine 
in a Signe 
Saturn Lord of 5", Planet Masculine 
Saturn Lord of 5", Signe Masculine 
Moon in a house Masculine 
Saturn in a house Masculine 
Jupiter Lord of the House Masculine 
Jupiter in a Signe Masculine 
Mercury Applying to Mars Masculine 
His Square, and Mars 
A Planet 


You see here are 8 testimonies of a Male Conception, or of Being with child of a Sonne, and but 
four of a Female; I therefore affirmed, that the Lady was impregnated of a Man child, (and so it 
proved.) 


The Resolution of 


How long ere she should be Delivered. 


The Signe of the 5th, viz. Capricorn, is moveable, so is Aries, wherein both the Lord of the 
Ascendant and Sth are posited; these argued but a short time: but because Saturn Lord of the 5th 
is a ponderous Planet, and of slow motion, I much valued him in this Judgment, so did I the 
Moon, because she was posited in the Signe of the 5th; I took their proper difference in degrees 
and minutes each from other: 


Locus Saturn in 24:37 Aries Both Cardinal Signs 
Locus Moon in 9:50 Capricorn 


The distance of the Moon from the Square aspect of Saturn is, as you may find by subtraction of 
the Moon, from Saturn 14. degrees, 47. minutes. 


I then subtracted Mercury his distance from the body of Saturn, because he was Lord of the 
Ascendant, and Saturn Lord of the Sth. 


Saturn 24:37 Aries 
Mercury 11:00 Aries 


Distance 13. degr. 37.min. so that finding no greater difference betwixt the distance of the Moon 
to the Square of Saturn, and the Conjunction of Mercury with Saturn, then 1 degree and 10 
minutes; I gave for every degree one week, and so judged, that about fourteen weeks from the 
time of the Question, she should be delivered. 


The truth is, she delivered the 11th of July following, at what time Mars transited the degree 
ascending, and Mercury Lord of the Ascendant, the Opposite place of the Moon, viz. the 9th of 
Cancer: You may further observe that the Sun the same day is in 27.48 Cancer, viz. in perfect 
Square to his place in our Figure, and the Moon in Cancer in Conjunction with Mercury. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Of The SIXT House, and It’s 
QUESTIONS. 


Viz. Sicknesse, Servants, Small Cattle. 


CHAP. XLIV. 


Judgment of Sicknesse by Astrology 


That which I hold convenient to write of Sicknesses, is thus much: 


That in the first place, we aught to carefully take the exact time of the parties first falling sick, 
viz. the house as neer as can be had, not that moment when first the patient felt a smatch of it, but 
that very time when first he was so ill, or so extremely oppressed, that he was enforced to take 
his Bed, or to repose. 


Secondly, if that cannot be had, then accept of that time when the sick parties Urine was first 
carried to somebody, to enquire of the Disease, whether the party enquired of was a Physitian or 
not. 


Thirdly, if no such thing can be had, let the Physitian take the time of his own first speaking with, 
or accesse to the Patient, or when first the Urine was brought unto him, let a Figure be erected 
accordingly, and the place of the Moon exactly rectified to the very houre; and then to know 
where the Disease is, let him carefully observe: 


First, the Ascendant, what Planet or Planets are therein placed. Secondly, the 6th house, and what 
Planet or Planets are therein posited. Thirdly, the Signe and house wherein the Moon is. Fourthly, 
how she is afflicted or affected, by what Planet, in what house that Planet is, what house of the 
Figure that Planet is Lord of. 


What part of the Body is afflicted; 
wherein you consider? 


If the 1st house be afflicted by the presence of an evill Planet 


The Resolution of 


and he Retrograde, Combust, Peregrine, slow in motion, or in Square or Opposition to any Planet 
who is Lord of the 4th, 6th, 8th or 12th, the Disease is then in the Head, or in that or those parts 
of the Body which the Planet or Planets signifie in that Signe then ascending, which you may see 
by the Table beforegoing page 119, as if the Signe ascending be Cancer, and Saturn therein, you 
may judge, the sick party is afflicted in the Head, or such Diseases as are incident to the Head, 
because that Ist house signifies in mans Body the Head, and is now afflicted by the position of 
Saturn in that house: but you shall also judge the sick party is Diseased with a Loosenesse or 
Flux in the Belly, or an imperfection in the Reynes or Secrets, or troubled with cold, raw Matter 
in his Stomack, because Saturn in Cancer doth signifie those members, or else with some rotten 
Cough; and your judgment herein shall be more certaine, and I dare say infallible, if either the 
Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon, or Lord of the 6th be in a Signe, and therein signifie that very 
member which Saturn doth, or if the Signe of the 6th represent that membet.. 


The same course and manner which I have directed in the ascendant, I would have observed in 
the 6th house, viz. the Signe of the 6th, the Planet or Planets therein placed, what member of 
mans Body they represent in the Signe wherein they are posited, from whom the Lord of the 6th 
last separated, to whom he next applies: Together with these, observe carefully the Signe and 
house wherein the Moon is, the separation and application, and you may then descend to give 
judgment in what part of the Body the sick party is grieved, and of what nature and quality the 
Sicknesse is of, or what humour is most predominant and peccant. 


From what cause the Sicknesse is. Generally observe: 
The Significators in Signes fiery, and the Signes ascending in the Ist, and decending in the 6th of 
the same nature, shew Hectick Feavers, and that Choller is predominant in this Sicknesse. 
The Significators in earthly Signes, argue long and tedious Agues, or Feavers of great 


continuance, of such Diseases as may occasionally proceed from Melancholly, Consumptions, 
&c. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Significators in ayery Signes, shew the Blood purified or corrupted, Gouty Diseases, 
Leprosies, the Hand and Foot Gout. 


The Significators in moyst Signes, declare the Disease to proceed from some cold and moyst 
cause or causes, and shewes Coughs, rottennesse in the Stomack, and that those parts are 
disaffected, &c 


House 
1st 
2nd 
3rd 
Ath 
5th 
6th 
7th 
8th 
9th 
10th 
11th 
12th 


Aries 


Taurus 


Gemini 
Cancer 


Diseases signified by the Houses. 


Head, Eyes, Face, Eares, stinking Breath, sore Mouth, and Noli me tangere. 
Throat, Neck, Kings—Evill 

Shoulders, Armes, Hands. 

Stomack, Brest, Lungs. 

Back, hind part of Shoulders, Stomack, Liver, Heart, Sides. 

Lower part of the Belly, Guts, Liver, Reynes 

Hammes, Flank, small Guts, Bladder, Matrix, members of Generation. 
Back-bone, Arse, Groine. 

Huckle-Bone, or, the Hips. 

Knees, Hamme of ones Leg behind the Knee. 

Shank, Legge from the Knee to the Ancle Shin-Bone. 

Feet, and all Diseases incident to them. 


Diseases signified by the Signes. 


All Diseases incident to the Head (as in the Ist house is signified) and such as 
proceed or have originall from Choller, small Pocks, Pushes, Pimples. 

Diseases in the Neck and Throat, having their beginning from Melancholly, as in 
2nd house. 

Shoulders, Armes, Hands, proceeding from Blood distempered. 

Scabbiness, Cancers in the Brest, Hurts in the Brest, ill Digestion in the Stomack, 
Spleen, Lungs, Upper part of the Belly, Cold and Moisture being the cause, 
Surfets, &c. 


Leo 
Virgo 


Libra 


Scorpio 


Sagittarius 
Capricorn 


Aquarius 
Pisces 


Saturn 


3upiter 


Mars 


The Resolution of 


Back-bone, Sides, Ribs, Heart, Lower part of the Brest, such infirmities as 
proceed from Choller and excesse of Blood. 

Shows Melancholly Diseases in the Intestines, and Bellyakes Fluxes, &c. 
impediments in the Miseraicks, Wind-chollick. 

Great Heats in the Back, or the Stone in the Reines or Kidneys, Surfets by 
drinking or eating, or from too much Venery, Diseases in the Buttocks, Joints, 
Hammes and Haunches. 

The Groin and parts about the privy Members, the Arse, Bladder, Pyles, Stones in 
the Bladder, Strangury 

The Hippes, Hammes, Buttocks, Fistula’s, Itches, Sciatica’s. 

The Knees, back part of the Hammes, Scurfs and Itches in and about the Knees, 
proceeding of Melancholly. 

The Legs, Shin-Bone and Calves of the Legs, with the Ancles. 

The Ancle-bone and Feet, Gouts, Swellings in those parts. 


Diseases Of The Planets. 


Is Significator of these Diseases; of noyse or rumbling in the right Eare arid Head, 
Deafnesse, Tooth-ach, paine in the Bones, in the Bladder, all cold Diseases 
proceeding from a deflux of the Humours, the Gout, Scab, Melanchollick, 
infirmities, Leprosie, Palsie, Consumption, black-Jaundies, quartan Agues, the 
Iliack-passion, Dropsie, Chin-coughs, Catarres of Rheums falling upon the Lungs 
and Pectorals. 

The Lungs, Ribs, Grissels, Liver, the Pulse, the Seed, Arteries, Apoplexies, 
Pluresies, wringings at the Heart, Convulsions, Inflamations of the Liver, 
Diseases in the Head, prickings and shootings neer or upon the Ridgebone, all 
windinesse in the Veines and body, or any Diseases arising from putrification in 
the Blood, &c. 

The left Eare, Gall, Reines, Privities and Stones, the Plague, wounds in the Face, 
Imposthumations, burning-Feavers, yellow-jaundice, Carbuncles, Fistula’s, 
Epilepsies, bloody-Flux, Calentures, St. Anthonies Fire. 


Sun 


Venus 


Mercury 


Moon 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Braine, Heart, Eye-sight, right Eye of a man, left eye of a woman, Cramps, 
Swoonings or sudden tremblings at the Heart, the Cardiack Passion, Fluxes in the 
Eyes, Catarres, red Choller. 

The Matrix, Genitals, Paps, Throat, Liver, Sperme, or Seed in man or woman, 
Suffocations or Defections in the Matrix, Pissing Disease, Gonorrhea, Debility in 
the Act of Generation, Strangury, weakness of Stomack and Liver, French or 
Spanish Pocks, imbecility or desire to vomit, or that Disease when presently after 
eating, all comes up againe. 

The Braine, Spirit, Fancy, Imagination, Speech, Tongue, Fingers, Hands, privation 
of Sense, Madnesse, Lethargy, Stammering, Hoarsenesse, Coughs, falling Evill, 
aboundance of Spettle, &c. 

Left Eye of Man, right Eye of woman, the Braine, the Small Guts, the Bladder, 
Taste, falling Sicknesse, Palsie, Collick, Menstrues in women, Apostems, Fluxes 
of the Belly, viz. Loosness, and all coagulated, crude Humours in any part of the 
Body 


From what proceeds, it’s easy to discover both the member afflicted, quality of the Disease, it’s 
cause and original rise; which being well considered, it’s requisite you be able to aquaint the sick 
party of the length or shortness of his Disease, and its time of accesse or recesse, the better to 
comfort him if life be ordained, or to make him more penitent and prepared for Heaven, if you 
see apparent testimonies of death. 


Whether the Disease will be long or short. 


Herein you must have respect to the time of the yeer in the first place, and to consider, that 
Sicknesses happening in the Winter are usually more long, and of long continuance; in the 
Summer more short; in the Spring they are reputed healthfull; in the Autumn, for the most part 
Diseases mortall and pernicious are stirred up. 


Also cold and dry Diseases which proceed from Saturn, or which he 


The Resolution of 


stirs up, or is the Author of, are more permanent and long, and generally are regulated by the 
Sun: hot and dry Diseases, which are procreated from the influence of Mars and the Sun are but 
short, and are determined by the motion of the Moon: Saturn produceth chronick Infirmities; 
Jupiter and Sun short; Mars more short, violent and quick; Venus a meane betwixt both; Mercury 
divers and unconstant; the Moon such as do againe revert, as the Falling-Sicknessee, Giddinesse, 
Swimming of the Head, Gout, &c. 


Signs of a long or short Sicknesse. 


If the Signe of the 6th be fixed, expect a long Disease; a moveable Signe, short continuance, a 
common Signe, a mediocrity, neither too long or too short, but for the most part, an alteration of 
the Disease, and returne of it againe. 


The last degrees of any Signe being upon the cusp of the 6th house, the Disease is almost at an 
end, or is either altering for better or worse: fixed Signes do argue the humour not to be expulsed 
without much time and difficulty. 


When the Lord of the 6th is of evill influence, and placed in the 6th, it's an ill Omen, or an 
unlucky Signe of a durable and great Sicknessee: but if in the like nature a Fortune be there, the 
Disease will soon be cured, nor is it mortall: When the Lord of the 6th is stronger than the Lord 
of the Ascendant, the Disease is like to encrease, advise the Patient to take fit remedies, for 
nature is weaker then the Disease; but is the Lord of the 6th house be more weak then the Lord of 
the Ascendant, then be assured nature will be able to overcome the malignity of the Disease, 
without much assistance of the Physician: When Saturn is Lord of the 6th house, and fixed in the 
Signe he is in,, he extremely prolongs the Disease; if he be Retrograde or slow in motion, he 
performs the same; but if he be in a moveable Signe and in any of his Termes, or Swift in 
motion, he is not then much unfortunate, or will he greatly prolong the Disease: a moveable 
Signe in the 6th, and the Moon likewise, and no impediment otherwise appearing, the Disease 
continues but a while; common Signes do continue longer any infirmity, except Pisces, for that 
being upon the cusp of the 6th, I ever found it equivalent to a 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


moveable Signe: If the Moon apply by ill aspect to the Lord of the Ascendant, the Disease 
encreases; if the Moon be in the 6th in ill aspect with Venus, the sick may thank himselfe for his 
Disease, he is a disorderly fellow, and of ill Dyet; and if Venus be in Scorpio, &c, he has got a 
clap of some uncleane woman; if a woman asks, she has too great Flux of Whites or Reds, or the 
Disease is occasioned by her owne Folly, &c, 


If the Lord of the 6th apply to the Lord of the Ascendant by Square or Opposition, the Disease is 
encreasing, and is not yet at his height or full growth; so also the Lord of the 6th in the 8th or 
12th, is an ill argument and great presumption, that the party sick must be more afflicted before 
his Disease leave him: 

If an Infortunate Planet be in the 6th, and is removing out of one Signe into another, the Disease 
will speedily alter: if it’s desired When, or how long it may be before it does so? then see how 
many degrees the malevolent Planet wants ere he can get out of the Signe, and thereby judge so 
many Monthes, Weeks or Dayes according to the nature and quality of the Signe: if the Lord of 
the 6th be Retrograde, Combust in the 8th or 12th, and in Square, Opposition or Conjunction 
with Saturn, Mars, or Lord of the 8th or 4th of the Figure, he prenotes much infirmity, a long 
continued and sudden alteration of the Disease from better to worse, if not Death it selfe; the 
Lord of the 6th in the 8th, and the Lord of the 8th in the 6th, there being also a Sextile or Trine 
aspect betwixt both Significators, you shall not doubt of the death of the Patient at that time, for 
the Heavens do declare that Nature is not yet overcome, or so weak, but that the sick shall 
overcome it: if there happen any Trine, Sextile or Conjunctions betwixt the Lord of the 6th and 
Jupiter, and he in the 9th, and the Moon separate from the Lord of the 6th to Jupiter, so in the 9th 
house posited, it’s an assured argument, that the Medicines which the Physitian precribes, or 
which the Patient has already taken, have caused the party to be very sick at time of their taking, 
and whilest they operated, and that the Medicines wrought effectually in the outward parts of the 
body, but afterwards the sick felt great comfort, and has found great emendation in the parts of 
the Body, afflicted at time of his first being ill; either Saturn or Mars, or any unfortunate Planet 
in the 6th, threatens great danger in the Sicknesse, yet 


The Resolution of 


if he be Nell affected or essentially fortified, he hurts little; and you may rather judge, the 
Disease is happened casually and suddenly, then upon any prepared matter in the Body 
beforehand, therefore let the sick be of good comfort: so likewise when you find a Benevolent 
Planet well fortified in the 6th, and he not author of the Disease, you may safely judge, the 
Disease is not, or will not be permanent. 


Many times it happens that in some Country-townes, people are afraid of Witches; If the Lord of 
the 12th be in the 6th when mistrust is had by any such Querent, it’s a strong argument the 
supposition is true, that the party is vexed by an evill Spirit, or by Fascination; when you find in 
the Question of a sick party, the Lord of the 6th in the Ascendant, and the Lord of the Ascendant 
in the 6th, you may give judgment the Disease has been of long continuance, and will continue 
untill one of the Significators get out of the Signe wherein he is; and if it happen, at the time of 
the Planets transit out of the Signe into another, he meet with the Square or Opposition of the 
Lord of the 4th or 8th, or with the oppressing or malicious aspect of Saturn or Mars, and they 
slow in motion, in Signes odiously beholding or aspecting another, it’s a very great Signe the 
sick will then depart this Life; when you find the Lord of the 6th afflicted by the Square or 
Opposition of the Lord of the Ascendant in Azimen degrees, a sig. for the Physitian, the Disease 
is uncurable, and the sick party continually pained: When the Lord of the 6th is in the Ascendant, 
the Disease will continue, but the paine doth slacken and seems quite removed at same times, or 
the Patient sometimes is not sensible of the paine: but if he be in a Cadent house, the Disease is 
neither very grievous, or will it endure any long space of time; so also good Planets in the 6th do 
promise a good end of the Disease; evill the contrary: Usually a malignant Planet in the 6th, 
shew his Disease unsettled, so doth also the Lord of the 6th if he be in the 6th, 8th or 12th, 
denotes a Disease not easily curable; if the Lord of the Ascendant and Moon be ‘free from the 
Square, Opposition, or Conjunction of Saturn or Mars, or any other infortunate Planet, and be 
Direct, free from Combustion, swift in motion, not Peregrine, or in his Fall or Detriment, or in 
the 8th or 6th, or in any aspect with the Lord of the 12th house, 6th or 8th, it’s 


All manner of QUESTIONS 


faire signification of health and recovery; when the Lord of the Ascendant is in the 4th or 8th and 
is not afflicted, he shall not signifie death, but recovery; but if he be unfortunate in the 4th, it 
notes great difficulty ere the party be cured; but if the Lord of the Ascendant be himselfe 
unfortunate, either in his house, or by Retrogradation, Peregrine, Combustion, or be in his Fall or 
Detriment, it’s possible be may be cured, but within a short time after he will relapse, dye or fall 
into some desperate infirmity; when also the Lord of the Ascendant is infortunated by the Lord of 
the 6th or 12th, and in bad aspect of the Moon, there’s danger in the Disease threatened; above 
all, have a care if Saturn be Lord of the Ascendant, and in his Dignities, slow, diminished in 

light, Retrograde, for then the Patient or Querent will be long sick; judge contrary of the 
signification of Saturn when otherwayes qualified.. 


The Lord of the Ascendant in an Angle, having no configuration to any malevolent Planet, but 
being in benevolent house of Heaven, and under the Sun Beames, or Retrograde, you may judge 
the Querent is in no danger at this time: When the Lord of the Ascendant be swift in motion, and 
entering into another Signe, or going out of his owne house into another, so it be not into the 
Signe of the 6th or 12th, the Disease will quickly determine: If the Lord of the Ascendant be not 
afflicted in himselfe, or by any ill aspect of the malevolent Planet or Planets of a contrary nature 
unto himselfe, but is swift in motion, and in some goad aspect with the Fortunate Planets, it’s a 
strong argument that the nature of the Diseases or Querent is nothing diminished, but is able to 
overcome the malignity of the Disease, and that in a very short time; but if the Significator of the 
sick be afflicted powerfully, it’s a Signe of a strong fit of Sicknesse; the greater it will be, when 
the Significator of life is more weak then the Planet afflicting: if all the Significators of the 
Diseases be in fixed Signes, it prenotes a great space of time before the Patient can be cured, nor 
will the cure be easily perfected; when the Lard of the Ascendant is applied unto by a malevolent 
Planet, it retards the cure, prolongs the infirmity, though at present great hopes appeare; so doth 
also the Moon when 


The Resolution of 


she is slow in motion, and goeth in 24 hours lesse than her meane motion, and be in any aspect or 
Conjunct with the Lord of the Ascendant; but if she be swift the sure is performed presently, or 
effected in a little time; for the most part when the Moon decreases in light and motion, and 
comes to the Conjunction, Square or Opposition of Saturn, unless the Disease be in its decrease 
and leaving the Patient or Querent, it’s I say, very mortal and dangerous: When the Moon is in 
Conjunction with a Planet that is Orientall, Direct and Swift, expect a short Sicknesse; joyned to 
a Retrograde or Planet Occidentall, look for’ the contrary. 


When you find Scorpio Ascending, you may for the most part judge, the party was cause of his 
owne infirmnesse, either by peevishness, folly, choller or the like; and your judgment will be 
more firme, if Mars be then placed in Scorpio: If both the Luminaries be in Cadent houses, and 
the Planet or Planets that are their Dispositors be unfortunate, the Querent may expect a terrible 
Sicknesse; if the Fortunes assist in judgment, yet will the Sicknesse be of long continuance, and 
of a sharp Disease, prove chronick, yet beyond all expectation, the sick party will recover; and 
the more confident in your judgment, by how much more strong the Fortunes are Dignified 
above the Infortunes; when you find Mars Lord of the Ascendant and posited in the 6th house in 
Sextile or Trine with Venus, Nay, but if he be in Square or Opposition of Venus, there’s no great 
danger. 


If the Lord of the 6th be Combust or Retrograde, in his Fall or Detriment, and in the 8th, in 
Conjunction, Square or Opposition of Saturn or Mars, you may doubt, and not unjustly, that the 
Disease will never leave the sick party till death; and if the Moon have equall testimony to the 
former Significators, viz. if she also apply to the Square, Opposition or Conjunction of the Lord 
of the 8th, your former judgment will be very certaine; if either the Moon or Lord of the 
Ascendant be in Square, Conjunction or Opposition to a benevolent Planet, Retrograde, the sick 
will recover, but not in haste, for it’s an argument for the prolongation of the Disease, and 
relapsing out of one Disease into another: When you find the Moon receded from Opposition of 
the Sun, to be swift in motion, and hastens to the Square or Opposition of Mars it will come to 
passe, that the Disease which the Querent now undergoes, will be grievous and mortall; but if she 
Salute at the same time the Sextile or Trine of Jupiter or 


All manner of QUESTIONS 


Venus, the sick shall recover. There’s usually no danger if the Moon at time of the Question be 
strong, and the Lord of the Ascendant free from misfortune, and in no aspect to the Lord of the 
6th, yet when the Moon at time of the Question applies to Saturn, or is impedited, it’s an ill 
Omen and Signe of a Sicknesse at hand, and that the Querent mistrusts his owne health is sick, 
but knowes not where to complain, or in what part of the Body the infirmity is placed. 


At the time of ones first lying down, if the Moon be placed in the Ascendant, in Conjunction, 
Square or Opposition of Saturn or Mars, or any of the unfortunate Planet, it’s a Signe of ill, and 
shews ill, unless the Moon be in reception with the Planet or Planets so afflicting: It’s very 
considerable to observe at the time of the question, what Signe the Moon is in: if in a Fixed, 
expect a long fit of sicknesse; in a moveable Signe, quick dispatch; in a Common or Double- 
bodied Signe, the Disease will not be very difficult to cure, but somewhat long in curing: and 
thus much more you must consider, that if there be translation of light (from that Planet who is 
Dispositor of the Moon, and he unfortunate) to the Lord of the Ascendant, or Signe Ascending, it 
gives great suspicion that the Querent will have a sharp sicknesse, according to the nature of the 
Signes and Planets signifying the infirmity. 


Testimonies that the Querent shall live and not dye 
of the infirmity now afflicting. 


When it is demanded seriously, if you conceive the Querent shall escape Sicknesse he now 
languishes under, or shall live, you must carefully have recourse to your Figure erected, and 
therein observe these rules following: That if the Moon be separated from a malevolent, weak 
Planet (that is ill dignified) and is applying to a Fortune powerfully strong, the sick party will be 
restored to former health; where Saturn is Orientall of the Sun, and Significator of the Disease, it 
proceeding from Cold (which is the true nature of Saturn without mixture) the Patient will 
recover; if you find in like case, that Saturn is Occidentall, and the generall Significators do 
incline or manifest, that the Disease is more of Heat than Cold, the sick will also be 


The Resolution of 


recovered; yet you must ever understand, that Saturn is unlucky when he is Occidentall &c. For 
the Disposition of Mars, you shall find, that after his Opposition with the Sun, that is, when he is 
Occidentall, he is not so much to be feared (viz. his evill influence) as when he is Orientall; for 
the Conjunction of the Moon with Mars is dangerous, and an argument of a strong sicknesse at 
hand, his Opposition or Square aspects do less mischiefe; the Moon doth more hurt in her 
encrease then in her decrease, so doth Mars being Orientall, more then when Occidentall. 


When you find there is any reception betwixt the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 8th, 
and neither of then infortunated by the malignant Planets, after desperation, there will be 
recovery: The Lord of the Ascendant in reception of the Lord of the 8th by House or Triplicity, 
the Fortunes afflicting either with their Trine or Sextile the degree Ascending or the 6th house, or 
the Moon her selfe, there’s no danger of death, but the sick will perfectly recover; so also, when 
the Lord of the ascendant shall happen to be a benevolent Planet, and posited in the Ist, 10th, 
11th, 5th or 3rd house, being no wayes endangered by the Square or Opposition configuration of 
the Malevolents, it prenotes sanity: so doth also the position of the Fortunes in the Mid—Heaven 
or Ist house, at what time the sicknesse first assaulted the sicke person, nothing is a more sure 
argument of health, or that the party sick shall live, then when you find the Sun, Jupiter, Venus or 
the Moon in the ascendant of the question, not any wayes damnified led by the hatefull aspect of 
the Lord of the 8" or 6"; and this argument is more certaine, if the aforesaid Significators be in 
good Signes, that is, in either of Jupiter his houses, or in Cancer or Leo, Libra or Taurus: When 
the Moone is in her owne house, or in the house of Jupiter or Venus, and there in either of their 
aspect, free from any ill aspect of Saturn or Mars, she signifies health and life. 


It’s a good argument of recovery, when in your Question you find the Moon in Conjunction with 
Jupiter, let Jupiter be in what Signe he will it denotes good, but less in Capricorn then in any 
other Signe, for neither the Moon or Jupiter have any delight therein, that Signe being the Fall of 
Jupiter and Detriment of the Moon; in very deed, no Planet delights to be in the Signe wherein he 
Fals, or is he able therein to express the strength of 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


his influence. When the Moon is applying to the Lord of the ascendant by a Trine or Sextile 
aspect, and she be cleer of all misfortune, or not impedited by the Lord of the 8th, or 6th 
especially, health and life are promised: Safety is also to be expected, when the Moon shall be 
well affected and posited in a Succeding house, provided, she be encreasing in light and motion, 
and not neer the bodies of Saturn or Mars, or infected with their 

Rayes: The Moon either in the Ist, 10th, 11th, 9th, 2nd, 3rd or Sth, in Trine or Sextile with the 
Lord of the ascendant, or with his Antiscion, Yea; if he be a malevolent Planet, so that neither the 
Lord of the ascendant. or the Moon have any other impediment, it doth argue life. 


When at the first falling sick of the infirme Body, the Moon is voyd of course, and at her next 
Crisis meets with a Sextile or Trine of Jupiter or Venus, in that very degree which makes a 
perfect crisis, the sick shall recover, but he never so much pained or grieved at the time of 
demanding the Question or accesse of the urine: when in the first beginning or approach of a 
Disease, the Sunne, Moon and the Lord of the Ascendant are free from ill aspects of the 
Infortunes or Lord of the 8th, there needs no feare or suspicion to be made of the death of the 
then sick person, or when the Benevolent Planets are more potent then the Malevolent, they give 
assured hopes of life, and invite the infirme person to confide of his escape. 


Arguments Of Death. 


When the ascendant at time of first falling sick, shall be the 7th house at the Birth, you may feare 
death, unlesse the Profection of that yeer be the same Signe: What Profection is, you shall know 
in my Treatise of Nativities; those Signes which are adverse in a Nativity are the Signes of the 
6th, 7th, 8th and 12th. 


When the 5 Hylegicall places at the hour of Birth, at time of Decumbiture of the sick, as also the 
Lord of the Ascendant, are oppressed, judge death immediately to follow, unlesse reception 
intervene betwixt the Infortunes, and the Fortunes interject 


The Resolution of 


their comfortable aspects; for then, by a divine miracle as it were the sick party may escape. 


He will be infinitely oppressed who in the houre of Mars shall first get an hot Disease, and in the 
house of Saturn a cold one. 


The Lord of the Ascendant and of the Figure Combust, doe undoubtedly declare death, unlesse 
there is some reception between the Sun and them, such a chance happening, and the Moon 
proving Fortunate, after all hopes of escape, a little hopes remaines. 


The Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon in Conjunction with the Lord of the 8th, without the 
interposing aspects of the Fortunes, threatens death. 


The Lord of the 8th in an Angle, the Lord of the ascendant in a Cadent, is alwayes mortall; the 
rather if he be an Infortune. 


The Application of the Moon to a Planet in the 8th, is alwayes dangerous: The Application of the 
Lord of the Ascendant unto the Lord of the 8th or unto Malevolent Planets therein, the Moone 
being any manner of way corrupt, denotes death. 


The Moon transferring the light and influence of the Lord of the ascendant to the Lord of the 8th, 
brings usually death: So also when the Lord of the 8th is in the ascendant, the Lord of the 
Ascendant and the Moon being both afflicted: It also proves fatall when the Lord of the 
ascendant is infortunate in the 8th, the Moon being then corrupted or very weak, and in no 
essentiall Dignity: The Lord of the ascendant being Subterranean, and in any aspect to the Lord 
of the 8th in the 8th, or if he be in the 4th, and the Lord of the 8th in the 4th, and they both in 
Conjunction, argue death: It’s a very ill Signe of life when the Lord of the ascendant is corporally 
joyned with the Lord of the 4th, 6th, 7th or 12th, it seldome succeeds well with the sick person 
then. 


Having speciall consideration to the Luminary of the time, for according to the well or ill 
affection thereof you may improve your Judgment. The Lord of the ascendant afflicted of an evill 
Planet in the 8th, without the benevolent aspect of the Fortunes, the Moon also then vitiated, 
shews great perill of death, and 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


usually by reason of ill government of the sick party, or some error in his ordering and course in 
Physick: It’s a powerful argument that the sick person will dye, when at time of his first Question 
to his Physitian, you find the Lord of the ascendant Combust in the ascendant 


The Lord of the Ascendant and of the 8th unfortunate, prenote death. 


The Lord of the 8th in the 10th house, and Lord of the ascendant in the 4th, 6th or 7th, afflicted 
of the malevolent Planets, argue death. 


A Planet very strong, and placed in the ascendant, if he be Lord of the houre and of the 8th, 
portends death: If the Lord of the 8th be Retrograde, and in Conjunction, Square or Opposition of 
the Moon, it shewes death: The Lord of the 8th in the 7th, the Moon and Lord of the ascendant in 
cadent Houses, infested with ill aspects of Infortunes; and more certaine, if one of the 
malevolents be Lord of the 8th, or posited in the 8th; some say, if the Moan be in Conjunction 
with Saturn or Jupiter, the sicknesse will have little good thereby, nor will he escape, unlesse 
Saturn be Retrograde and Jupiter Direct. 


When the Lord of the Ascendant is in Conjunction with the Lord of the 8th, or in Square or 
Conjunction of a Planet posited in that house, or in the Antiscion of the Lord of the 8th, without 
the benevolent Sextile or Trine of Jupiter, and at the same time the Moon be anyway afflicted, 
it’s probable the sick will dye; but if the Lord of the Ascendant be in reception with the Planet in 
the 8th, it’s possible he may avoyd death; however, let him be assured a very long and grievous 
Disease he cannot: If the Moon be with Saturn or Mars, without the assistance of some good 
aspect from Jupiter and Venus; and if Saturn be slow in motion, or is going Retrograde, it’s so 
much the worse, and it’s one argument the sick will dye at that time; if other testimonies 
concurre, it’s more certaine. The Lord of the Ascendant in the 7th, in his Fall, or under the earth 
in the 4th or 6th, or in other Cadent houses, afflicted by the malevolents, and the Lord of the 8th 
in the 7th, these are testimonies of death. malevolent Planet neer to the degree ascending, or a 
violent fixed Starre, viz. Antares in 4 degrees of Sagittarius, Lans Australis about the 9th degree 
of Scorpio, Palilictum in 4 degrees of Gemini, Caput Medusae in 20 degrees of Taurus, these 


The Resolution of 


prenote death. The Lord of the Ascendant in Leo or Aquarius, in any bad configuration of the 
Lord of the 6th or 12th, shewes little hope of recovery.. Both the Lights afflicted of Saturn in 
Angles, give testimony of a tedious long sicknesse; so doth both the Lights, being ill dignified 
and under the earth, signifie the same. When as also the Sun from the beginning of the Disease 
shall be corporally afflicted, or by the Square or Opposition of Saturn or Mars impedited, or be 
in the perfect Antiscion of a malignant Planet, or shall apply and not separate, either death, or an 
extraordinary long sicknesse succeeds. The Moon after the beginning of the Disease comming to 
Opposition of the Lord of the Ascendant, and he Retrograde or Combust, argues death, or a sharp 
disease, not easily curable.. Saturn in Opposition with the Lord of the 8th, the Moon in the 4th 
with Mars, or Moon in the Ascendant, and neer the degree ascending, are arguments of death. 
The Moon besieged by the Infortunes, or between Sun and Mars, or between Sun and Saturn, are 
ill Omens of health. He who fals sick whilest the Moon is under the Sun-Beames, viz. departing 
from Combustion, his Disease shall encrease till she hath passed the Sun his Opposition; but then 
if she prove ill affected, and come to an ill aspect of the Lord of the 8th, it threatens death, 
otherwise he or she will escape.. 


Any malevolent in the 6th, or any Planet peregrine and unfortunate in that house, shew great 
danger in the Disease; the Combustion of the Moon in the 8th house, and in Leo, or in Libra, in 
Square or Opposition to Saturn or Mercury, or in Conjunction with the Pleiades in 24 degrees of 
Taurus, or other violent fixed Starres, argues death.. The Moon being Lady of the 6th, or of the 
Ascendant in Combustion, and the Lord of the 8th at the same time afflicted by Conjunction, or 
ill aspect of Saturn or Mars, shew death. 


DARIOT Abridged. 


In regard I have ever affected Dariot his Method of judgment in sicknesses, I have with some 
abbreviation annexed it, in a farre more short way and method heretofore published. 


All manner of QUESTIONS. 


If the Party be sicke of whom the 
Question is Demanded. 


[DARIOT] 

The Significator of the Querent in the Signe contrary to his owne nature, as Mars being Lord of 
the Ascendant, and naturally hot and dry, if he be in Cancer, which is cold and moyst; or if the 
Lord of the Ascendant be in a Cadent house, chiefly in the 6th, he is sick.. 


A diurnall Planet being Significator, and he under the earth ill affected, Combust, Retrograde, in 
his Fall or Detriment, weak, or in Termes of malevolents, or with violent fixed Stars, or besieged 
by the two Infortunes, these things happening, the party is sick.. What was spoken of a diurnall 
Planet, must be understood of a nocturnall one. (consideratic, consideratis) 


[LILLY] 
When a Question was asked of me upon any Urine, or without it, having erected my Figure, I 
observed this method, to know whether 


If the Ascendant were not afflicted, or the Lord thereof out of his essentiall Dignities, or in any 
evill aspect of Saturn or Mars, or Lord of the 6th. 


Or if no Planets afflicted the 6th house by presence, or that the Moon were not afflicted in the 8th 
or 12th; or if I found Jupiter or Venus or North Node in the Ascendant, or the Sun in the 6th, or 
the Moon and the Lord of the Ascendant in any good aspect, or Jupiter or Venus casting a Trine 
or Sextile to the cusp of the Ascendant or the 6th house, I would directly aquaint the party they 
were not sick, or that no sicknesse would succeed upon the Quere, but that their mistrust of a 
sicknesse was grounded upon some sudden distemper of Body, which would presently be 
rectified. 


Cause Of The Disease Inward or Outward. 


DARIOT 

The inward cause and condition of the Disease we require from the ill disposition of the 
Significator, in Signe, House and place in Heaven, his good or ill configuration with the 
malevolent Planets: where generally observe, any Planets may in this case be malignant, if he be 
the Lord of the 8th, 12th or 6th, &c. 


The Resolution of 


The Outward cause is required from those Infortunes that doe afflict the Lord of the Ascendant, 
or from the principall Significators in the Figure, or the Moon; for if you find the Lord of the 
Ascendant sufficiently strong in essentiall Dignities, swift in motion, in a good house of Heaven, 
you may then judge the Querent is not naturally ill, but accidentally and outwardly afflicted, and 
if you find notwithstanding the strength of the Lord of the Ascendant, that either Saturn or Mars 
have some Square or Opposition aspect unto him, and neither of them be Lords of the 6", or 
Dispositors of the Moon, you may judge some outward cause hath happened to the party, 
whereby it comes to passe he is not well, yet not perfectly sick; doe you then observe in what 
house that Planet is, or of what house he is Lord, and from the judgments belonging to that 
house, require satisfaction in Art; as for example: 


[LILLY] 

If you find the Lord of the Ascendant casually afflicted by Saturn or Mars, &c. and either of 
them are Lords of the 2" house, and there appears no inward cause of a Disease, then doe you 
judge the Querent is in some want of money, (if the Significators apply) or hath had lately 
damage, the Significators are separated; the greatnesse or smallnesse of his losse judge according 
to the strength of the Planet afflicting, and quality of the aspect; where note, Oppositions herein 
are worse then Square aspects or Conjunctions. If it be the Lord of the 5", be the Planet good or 
ill, that afflicts, or hath evill aspect to the Lord of the Ascendant, either by evill Dyet, Surfet, &c. 
or by losse at Dice, Tables or Sports (if Querent is capable) or that the Father comes not off 
freely with his Pension; (this is when young people demand a Question, or are distempered) if it 
be the Lord of the 7" that oppresses the Lord of the Ascendant, the party has had lately some 
difference with his Wife (and so a Woman, on the contrary, with her Husband) or some Law-suit, 
or willful Neighbour-contention, or Partner is the outward cause of his evill indisposition. In 
Youth, if the like configuration be upon the Question from the Lord of the 7" to the Lord of the 
Ascendant, it’s alone melancholly, his Friend, or 


all manner of Questions 


the Maid he affects, or the man she longs after is unkind, and discontent for that occasion is the 
outward cause of this ill affectedness in the Body, yet will no sicknesse follow it.. This is the 
Method which I ever observed, which I freely comunicate to the world, and which, if well 
understood, will give knowledge sufficient to this way of judicature. 


Of the qualitie and nature of the Disease. 


Although formerly I have briefly given directions herein, yet now I hold it fit to be more copious, 
and desire the Learner that he will contract what I write into such a Method as may best please 
his owne Phansie; and be inabled to make the best use of it for his owne advantage. When 
therefore you have erected your Figure, consider what Planet is significator of the Disease; and if 
you so find Saturn to be significator, he produces continued and tedious Sicknesses, quarten 
Agues, Coughs, comsumptions, &c. If he be in Leo or in Scorpio with South Node or North 
Node, or Combust, or if Saturn be with violent fixed Starres, he afflicts the sicke party with 
pestilent and dangerous Feavers, and it may be doubted (where suspicion of Poyson is) that the 
Sicke has been indeavoured to be Poysoned, or hath taken some potion equivolent to Poyson. 


When Saturn is in the Signe of the fiery Triplicity, as Aries, Leo, Sagittarius, he usually signifies 
Hectick-Feavers. If he be in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, the cause and matter of the Disease 
growes from some cold and moyst cause or matter, or distemper; and this more assuredly if 
Venus or Moon, who are moyst Planets, have together with him and signification in the Disease, 
the matter then afflicting or cause of the disease is more grosse and vicious with long 
Paroxismes, with ebbing and flowing of the Disease. The sicke party is almost overwhelmed 
with horror, dread and fearful imaginations, with extreme chillinesse or coldnesse. 


When Saturn is in fixed Signes, as in Taurus, Leo or Aquarius, he afflicts the Patient with durable 
and long continued Agues and Feavers, pectorall rotennesses, or dry coughs, the joynt Gout, 
Leprosie, or generall Scabbinesse all over the Body, all manner of Gouts. 


The Resolution of 


Saturn being in moveable Signes, as Aries, Libra, Cancer, Capricorn, prenotes a generall Flux of 
humours all-over the Body, principally the Dropsie or Tympanicall humours. Being in common 
Signes, the Disease proceeds not from the disaffection of one humour alone, but has many 
changings, receding and reverting, and yet the Disease continues a long time.. 


Jupiter When he is author of the Sicknesse, he demonstrates ill affection of the Liver, and a 
corruption of the blood either by inflamation, or other causes of nature agreeable to the Signe 
wherein he is posited, as if in Cancer, or in a moyst Signe the blood is waterish, or too thin, &c. 
If in Aries, Leo or Sagittarius, it’s overheated by some extravagant excesse of heat or choller, if 
in Aquarius, Libra or Gemini the blood over flows, there’s too much, breathing of a Veine is 
necessary or sweating. If in Taurus, Capricorn or Virgo, the blood is infected with Melancholly, 
too grosse, and not fluent.. Jupiter in fiery Signes causes Feavers proceeding from blood, yet 
without rottennesse or store of putrification.. 


When Mars is joyned with the Sun, it prenotes a distempered Feaver procreated, by putrification 
of the blood. 


If Mars be significator of the Disease and in any Signes afflicting the Luminaries or the 
Ascendant or Lord of the Ascendant, he procreates hot burning Feavours, some mixture of 
Melancholy. If Saturne be mixed in the Judgment of the disease, that is, if he have anything to do 
in the Signification of the Disease, or Mars in any of his dignities. 


When Mars is in common Signes, the disease will not easily be discovered, it will come and goe, 
and be at no certainty, yet at what time it seems to leave. If Saturne have any signification and be 
in aspect with good Planets, the disease will quite goe away, but if then Saturne be with the Lord 
of the 8th or 6th, the Sicke may expect death. Usually when Mars is in common Signes the 
Patient is vexed with many infirmities and they acute, returning when expectation is of 
amendment. The symptoms hereof are sudden motions, and more quicke and speedy Criticall 
dayes, either to good or ill, according to the nature of the Significator. Mars under the beames of 
the Sun in the 6th or in the 12th, in fiery Signes, brings scorching or burning inflaming Feavers, 
that is, Feavers exceeding, especially in heat, and as it were boiling the blood. 


All manner of QUESTIONS 


Mars being the cause of a Feaver and in Leo, shews ebolition or a boyling of the humours, 
continuall burning Feavers, whose originall cause springs from the great Veines neer the heart: 
When the Sun at first lying downe of the Sicke party, is in Conjunction, Square or Opposition of 
Saturne, or in Saturne his Antiscion, the Disease then afflicting is meerly Melancholly; If the Sun 
be afflicted of or by Mars with the aforesaid aspects, the Disease is from Choller: Venus being 
Significatrix of the Disease, shewes it proceeds of intemperancy, too much Gluttony of some 
Surfeit, the disaffection in the Belly, or in or neer the privy parts, or by some Womanish trick, 
&c. Venus in Fiery Signes, shewes a Feaver but of one dayes continuance, but if Mars joins in 
signification, it notes rotten Feavers arising from Fleagme. 


When Mercury is unfortunate and is author of the Disease, the sick party hath his Braine 
disaffected, is disturbed with an unquiet Fancy or Minde, with a Frenzie, Fallingp-sicknesse, 
Cough, Ptissick, or the like. When the Lord of the 9th is in the 6th, the Disease is from some 
Poyson, Witchery or Fascination, Charme, or by or from some occult cause; this is, when 
mistrust is of such like chances. 


Whether the Disease be in the right or left side or part 
of the Body of him that demands the Question 
or is Sick. 


When you finde the Lord of the 6th unfortunate or afflicted above the earth (that is in the 
12,11,10,9,8,7 houses) the Disease is in the right side of the Body, and in the upper part thereof. 
If the Lord of the 6th be under earth, viz.. in the 1,2,3,4,5,6 houses, or vitiated in a diurnal Signe, 
the Disease is in the superior or fore-part of the body, as in the fore—head, stomacke, &c. If in a 
nocturnall Signe, the infirmity is in the back part of the Body. 


If the Significator of the Disease be in a Feminine Signe, and in Aspect to a Feminine Planet in a 
Feminine Signe or House, the Disease is in the left side of the Body. I ever finde this generall 
rule to hold true, viz. if the Lord of the 6th be a Masculine Planet and above earth, the right side 
of the Sicke is pained. If the Significator be in few degrees of the Signe, the 


The Resolution of 


upper part of that Member is pained or grieved; If the Significator be in the middle of the Signe, 
the middle part of the Member is distressed, and so the lower part of the Member, when the 
Significator possesseth the lower degrees of the Signe. 


Whether the Disease be in the Body, Minde or both. 


You must understand in the first place, that the Signe ascending the Moon and the Lord of the 
house wherein the Sun is, doe shew the Spirit of Man, and that the Lord of the Ascendant, the 
Planet who is Dispositor of the Moon, doth denote both the externall and internall Members. 
Wherefore in giving judgment herein, you may consider if the Ascendant Sun and Moon be all 
vitiated or afflicted, the Disease is then through the whole Body, or no place is free. If those 
Planets who dispose of the Sun and Moon, or he that is Lord of the Ascendant, or two of them at 
least be afflicted, the Disease is in the Spirits together with some indisposition of minde. The 
reason hereof is, because the Lord of the Ascendant and Dispositor of the Moon are properly the 
Significators of the Animal faculties and infirmities in Man, or which may chance unto him. As 
deprivation of Sense, Maddnesse, Frenzie, Melancholly, &c. 


If the Ascendant, the Moon and Lord of the House of the Sun are all or but 2 of them impedited, 
the infirmity rests in the Mind but not in the Body. 


If the Ascendant and the Moon be both unfortunate, and the Lord of the Ascendant and 
Dispositor of the Moon free, the indisposition is in the Minde and not in the Body. This generall 
rule many Astrologians observe, viz. that Saturn naturally forshews or causeth Melancholy, all 
manner of distempers from Melancholly, and by consequence the disturbed Minde; wherefore 
wheresoever you finde Saturn Lord of the Ascendant or of the Houre, or 12th House, or 6th, or if 
the Moon separate from him, or if Saturn be in the 6th house, or in the Ascendant, or in 
Conjunction, Square or Opposition of the Lord of the Ascendant, the sick-party labours with 
some affliction of Minde, or with some vexatious care where—with his minde is more troubled; 
now the contrary hereof Jupiter effects, for he never oppresseth the 


all manner of QUESTION 


Minde but the Body. If the Lord of the House of the Moon and of the Ascendant are unfortunate 
by the Sun, or Combust, or under his beames, the infirmity is Bodily. 


If that Planet who rules the Signe wherein the Lord of the Ascendant is in, and he who is 
Dispositor of the Moone be infortunate in their fall, detriment or otherwayes very much afflicted, 
the Disease raignes more in the Minde then in the Body. 


If a Planet in the Ascendant, or the Ascendant, or if the Lord of the House of the Moone be 
oppressed in the 12th, or by a Sextile or Trine or Opposition of Mars, the Disease is both in the 
Minde and the Body. A Planet being by nature malevolent, beholding the Ascendant and not the 
Moone, and together with this, if the Lord of the Signe where the Sun is be afflicted, the party is 
grieved in Minde, but not sick in his Body. Also, if the degree ascending and degree of that Signe 
wherein the Moon is be more afflicted then the Lords of those Signes, the Disease ranges more in 
the Minde then the Body, and so the contrary when the Lords are more afflicted then the parts of 
the Signes before mentioned. If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Sun be in their exaltations, 
and the dispositor of the Moon in his detriment or fall, the Disease is in the Body, not the Minde. 
When the Lords of the places of the Moon and of the Sun be in their detriment, fals, or Peregrine, 
Retrograde, Combust, and the degree ascending in Square of the Moon; and free from ill aspects 
of Saturn and Mars, then is the Patient vexed with a tormented Soule. Usually when the Sun, the 
Lord of the Ascendant, or houre, or of the 12th house are Significators of the party inquiring, 
these shew a Minde vexed with haughtinesse, vaine-glory, self—conceitednesse, Pride, &c. 


Venus argues luxury, a laviscious desire to Women, wherewith both Body and Minde are 
disturbed. Mercury shews doating fancies, and fearfull imaginations, wheresoever you finde him 
a Significator and afflicted: as also, that he is stirred to mistrust upon vaine feares, his owne 
jealous fancies, or upon some flying reports.. Over and above the many Directions formerly 
prescribed, you must well consider whether the degrees wherein the Lord of the Ascendant, the 
Sun or Moon at time of the Birth (if you have the Patients Nativity) doe fall to be the degrees of 
a Signe 


The Resolution of 


when the Moon is 12 degrees from the wherein a present Eclipse is, at time of the sicknesse or 
neer it, or of some eminent great Conjunction; for I must tell you, these are all unfortunate. 


The Signe of the Eclips or of a great Conjunction threatening evil, or the Signe of the 8th House 
of the yeerly revolution of the World, falling in any of the Angles of the Nativity, especially in 
the Ascendant, proves very dangerous. 


When a Signe ascends upon the first falling sick, or demand of the Patient, wherein the Infortune 
was in the Nativity, it most fearfully torments the sick party, viz. it shews he shall have a hard fit 
of Sicknesse. The Conjunction of the Moon with the Sun is a very ill Signe, when there’s not 
above 6 degrees distance betwixt them, and the Moon not yet passed by the Sun, that is, not 
having been in Conjunction with him: however, upon the Sun and Moon their being in 
Conjunction in Aries or Leo, this misfortune is lessened; 

Sun, she shews little danger.. 


Of the Crysis, or dayes Criticall. 


Sundry Astrologians have handled this part of Medicinall Astrology so learnedly, that I shall 
onely refere them to their excellent Works, which are publikely to be had; onely thus much I 
have ever observed, that to find the true Crysis, you must as neer as can be obtained, get the hour 
wherein the Patient first took to his Bed; which if it cannot be had, then take the hour when first 
Judgment was required of the Physitian, and rectifie the Moon her motion to that very hour; if 
the Disease be not chronick, but acute, you shall find great alteration in the Disease and party 
infirmed, neer upon those times when the Moon comes to be distant from that her first place, 45 
degrees; so also when she is 90 degrees from that place; and again when distant 135 degrees, for 
discovering whether the Crysis will be good or ill, you must note what Planet she is in aspect 
267ithal at those times, whether with a friendly Planet or Infortune. If she be in a good aspect at 
those times with a benevolent Planet, it doth promise ease, and a better condition in the Disease.. 
But if she then meets with an ill aspect of the Lord of the 8" or 6", the Patient will be worse, his 
paine encrease, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


and the Medicine will do little good. I usually observe, and I doe not remember that I have failed, 
viz. that as oft as the Moon came to Square, Conjunction or Opposition of that Planet who did 
any wayes either afflict the ascendant; the Lord of the ascendant of the Moon, or when she came 
to the like aspect of the Lord of the 6th or any Planet that was posited in the 6th, I say, then I did 
ever observe the Patient to be much distempered, the Disease high, and Medicines given about 
those times to work little or no good effect; when I observed Moon to come to a Trine or Sextile 
of the Lord of the Ascendant, or Lord of the 11th, or Lord of the 9th or 10th, I use to pronounce 
to the Infirmed, comfort and some relaxation or an intervall of ease; so also, when the Lord of 
the Ascendant came to any good aspect of the Sun (if he has not power or domination in the 
disease, I found the Patient’s mind much enlightened.) 


[How long ere the sick recover.] 

When I find, that by God’s blessing the sick party shall recover, and it be demanded, When or 
about what time it is like to be? I usually observe, who is the Lord of the Ascendant, and which 
of the benevolent Planets he is in aspect with, and how many degrees there are distant betwixt 
them, in what house they both are in, viz. whether Angles, Succedant, Cadent, what Signe they 
possesse, whether Moveable, Fixed or Common, and according to discretion and quality of the 
Disease, so I frame my measure of time; yet ordinarily if the aspect be in moveable Signes, I 
judge, in so many dayes the party will amend, the more certainly, I determine, if the significators 
be swift in motion, angular.. If the application be in common Signes, I neither judge moneths, 
weeks or dayes, but according as I can with discretion frame my judgment, having first observed 
the nature of the Disease, and possibility of determining in such or such a time, the Ancients did 
say: 


Moveable Signes shew Dayes. 

Common Signes, Weeks or Moneths. 
Fixed Signes, Moneths or Yeers. 

Angles are equivalent to moveable Signes. 
Succeedant to common Signes. 

Cadent to fixed Signes. 


The Resolution of 


Together with the principall Significators, consider the quick or slow motion of the Moon, the 
Signe she is in, and its quality, mix all together, and your judgments will be more rationall: I 
many times find, when the Lord of the Ascendant moves out of the Signe he is in at the time of 
the Question, and has essentiall Dignities in the Signe he is going into, the party recovers then, or 
sensibly feels an alteration for the good in himselfe; and so if the later degrees of a Signe are on 
the cusp of the 6th, viz. if I find 28 degrees, and the Signe common, I say, the Disease will vary 
in lesse time then 2 weeks: I might give infinite rules, but in judgment of a Figure or two 
subsequent, I shall better be understood in the practicall part of it, and deliver the method I 
always observed; but because, together with what I write, the Reader might have more variety of 
judgment; and because nothing in this life is more irksome then Sicknesse, or more delightfull 
then health, I have endeavoured to English the Iatromathematicks of Hermes, much esteemed in 
all Ages, and here to insert them, as being necessary to the Judgments of this House. 


HERMES TRISMEGISTUS upon the first 


Decumbiture of the Sick. 


The heavenly Rayes or influence proceeding and emitted from the seven Planets are multiplied 
and dispersed into the severall members of man, even whilest the conception in the Mothers 
Wombe, doth first begin to cleave together: neither verily doth it happen otherwayes when the 
child first sees the light of this world, but even according to the position of the twelve Signes of 
Heaven, so doe we assigne the Head to the Signe Aries. 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


The Sensitive Parts or Instruments of Mans Body are 
thus attributes to the seven Planets. 


The right Eye to the Sun, the left to the Moon. 

The sense of Hearing and Eares to Saturn.. 

The Braine to Jupiter, Blood to Mars. 

Smelling and Tasting to Venus. 

The Tongue, the Weesell-pipe of a mans Throat or Lung-pipe to Mercury. 


That member suffers a defect or imperfection, of which either at conception or birth an afflicted 
Planet had dominion or did Signifie the same. 


There are also in man foure more principall and generall parts; the Head, the Breast, the Hands, 
and Feet. 


If the Planet who governth any of those principal parts be unfortunate and ill affected, either at 
the time of Conception or Birth, the same Planet afflicteth or disfigureth all those parts so 
attributed unto himselfe, or some particular or principall part of those members. 


As when the Sun or Moon be ill disposed or vitiated, either the one or both, the eyes receive 
prejudice; if Saturn the eares, teeth or sense of hearing. When Mercury is oppressed, we find a 
defect in the tongue, or stammering in speech. And in the same manner we may apprehend, 
whether any part of the Breast, Lungs, Liver, Spleen, Heart, or any of the intestines or inwards of 
the body be corrupted and infected, radically from the Birth or Conception... 


In consideration of the Hands and Feet we shall observe, whether the Fingers, Nailes or any of 
these are unperfect or vitiated by the affinity of some predominating malignant Planet. 


To such defects and imperfections as are within the compasse of cure, convenient Medicines are 
to be applyed, and we must resist the Disease proceeding from the influence of the Planets, by 
other Planets of contrary nature and power to the Planet afflicting. 


To Saturn are assigned such Medicaments as doe coole or refrigerate, extenuate with drinesse 
and promotes ficcity. 


The Resolution of 


To Mercury such as congeale, are flatuous and windy. 


To Mars such as are calefactive, warm and impletive, as unto a Planet being a very sharpe heater 
and procurator of blood.. 


To Jupiter and Venus things conglutinating, mollifying and are effective to asswage and cure all 
Ulcers. 


The Moone helps that Planet, or lends assistance to him, be he good or bad, to whom she 
applies.. 


To him therefore that would either cure the Sicke or heale the Lame, the position of Heaven 
ought to be well considered and knowne, set or erected for the houre of his first falling sick, or 
lying downe; the Planets and their respective disposition and mutuall habit to and among 
themselves, is carefully to be respected, for without the congresse and influence of these in 
humane and worldly affaires, nothing is either infirme or sound. No Patient can possibly be cured 
by the industry of his Physitian, be he never so learned, without the benevolent configuration of 
the Stars, and happy positure thereof; but he shall either perish, being destitute hereof, or recover 
and be preserved by their kinde influence.. 


If the certaine hour of the parties first falling sick cannot exactly be knowne, then carefully take 
the position of Heaven at that given time when judgment is required of the Physitian: 

therein observe from whom the Moon is separated, to whom she applies, with what Planets she is 
in Square or Opposition to, or with whom in Conjunction; if she be in configuration with the 
malevolents, she intimates the Disease will extend almost to death. But with the Fortunes, the 
sick will obtaine remedy more speedily: Observe if she be swift in motion, and encreasing in 
light, or whether both of them happen at once, or neither of them: for if after her Conjunction 
with the Sun, when she begins to grow great, and as it were, to swell with the encrease of light 
and motion, she shall then be afflicted by the Square or Opposition of Mars, before she came to 
Opposition of Sun, and no intervening aspect of a benevolent Planet chance between, she 
signifies mortall or pernicious Diseases. But if conjoyned, or in good aspect of beneficiall 
Starres, the infirme Body shall recover, though he were absolutely persuaded he should not live 
or escape that Disease; but if the Moon be decreasing in light and motion, and afflicted either by 
the Square or Opposition of 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


Saturn (unlesse presently after Opposition with Saturn the vigor of the Disease remit) the Disease 
is not curable but Mortall. If she apply to benevolent Planets, the Disease will soone be cured. 
This is further to be considered, that during the encrease of the Moon in number and light, the 
Disease encreaseth.. When the Moon growes slow in motion, the sicknesse diminisheth. This 
ought carefully to be regarded upon the first insult of every Disease.. 


Those who are at the time of their first lying downe are oppressed by the malignant influence of 
Saturn or Mercury, they are commonly heavy and drowsie, unwillingly moving their diseased 
Members, stupified or benummed with immoderate cold, or molested with unnatural defluxions: 
The Disease by little and little stealeth upon the sick party, nor is he easily awaked though moved 
thereunto: He is silent in speech, fearfull, desires such Plaisters or formentations as are very hot, 
and inforce heat; they delight to be without light, as to be in darknesse; he sighes continually, and 
gently drawes in his breath, or sucks it up, or is short winded; the Pulse is swift and painfull; 
warme things applyed gives them great comfort; they have feeble Pulses; the outside of their 
bodies are cold and dry whereby it comes to passe, that in curing such people, that the Physitian 
ought to apply such Medicines as are naturally hot, doe mollifie and constringe. 


Who fall sicke upon any malevolent configuration of the Sun or Mars, become disturbed in their 
Minds, perplexed in their Fancies, are troublesome and very rugged in their deportment; the 
superficiall parts of their bodies being inflamed with a fiery heat. They are prone to anger, make 
much clamor or noyse, look peevishly, lye staring, atwayes thirsty by reason of the roughnesse of 
their parched tongues; desirious of Wine, cold Drinke, importuning the use of Bathes: no manner 
of Meat whets their appetite; they freely squander out their virulent language against every man; 
they have a short, depressed and inordinate Pulse; red rubicund faces, oppressed with fullnesse of 
body. For recovery of these Men, it conduces much to let Blood untill the fifth day, or prescribe 
such Medicines as evacuate and Purge the foulnesse of their bodies, and to administer such other 
Remedies 


The Resolution of 


as the necessity of nature further requires. What Medicines are agreeable to the nature of Mars 
are repugnant to Saturn as not calesactive, emollient or mollifying and dissolving obstructions. 


Medications which naturally are concurring with Saturn, prove contrary to those of the nature of 
Mars; as those which are refrigerating or cooling, astringent or binding, and repercussing. 


All infirmities or passions, or tremblings of the heart, and such as proceed from the mouth of the 
Stomack, Diseases and paines in the Arteries, Veines and Joynts, have originall from the evill 
influence of Mars and Sun. 


Continues Feavers, Phrensies, Exulceration and inflamation of the Lungs and Lights, and such 
like Diseases, draw their originall from Saturn and Mercury; Against such Diseases, Medicines 
that refrigerate are most proper, of which sort are these: 


Nightshade Stone Hematites Allum 

Coriander Purcel/Egg White Flower of Field-Vine 
Endive Flax-seed Fruit of Palm Trees 
Juyce of Poppy Reed The Myrrh-Tree 
Root of Alkakenge Leaves of Mallows Summach 
Knot-graffe Pomegranet Fresh Roses 
Singreen Hypocistis Bull-Rushes 
Fleawort Cypress Tree Ladanum 

Lentiles Blackberry Tree Saffron 
Vine-leaves Acania Potomagitum 
White Lead Quinces 

Silver-froth Pirapirastra 


Such medicines as are naturally calesactive or hot, are assigned to the dominion of Mars and 
Sunne; whereof some are as followeth: 


Oleum Cyprinum Ongnentum Irinum White Daffodille 
Cinamon Fenigreek Sweet Marjorum 
Spikenard Myrrh Cassia Odorata 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


Bdellium Frankinsence Storax Calamita 
Ammoniacum Helleborus Ocymum 

Root Sera Rue/Hearbgrace Pyrethrum 

Dry Figgs Mirabolans Chrysocalla 
Cummin Onions Pix 

Salt-Peeter Garlic Fat 

Granum Gnisdium Leeks Marrow 
Staves-acre Raddish Roots Galbanum 
Stone Asius Chick Peas Flower de Luce 
Galangal Sea-Salt 


all things smelling sweet, and being fragrant. 


To expulse and recover those Diseases which have their original rise and cause from Saturn or 
Mercury (which afterwards you shall have discovered by the course of the Moon) such manner 
of Medicines as these must be administered, which do naturally heat and mollifie. But in 
repressing Solar and Martiall Diseases, the learned Physitian must apply such Remedies, as by 
nature are refrigerative, cooling and repercussive. 


Of the Signes and conjectures of the Disease, and of life or death 
by the good or ill positions of theMoon at time of the Patient first lying 
downe, or demanding the Question. 


Whoever shall first lye downe of their sickness, the Moon decreasing in light and motion, in any 
of the 12 Signes, and afflicted by Saturn his Square, Opposition or Conjunction, shall in part or 
in all, be partaker of such Diseases as follows, during the time of the continuance of their 
Disease.. 


MOON IN ARIES (CONJUNCT - SQUARE — OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Viz.. With Head—ach, or heavinesse of the Head, or Rheume, falling down into the Nostrils, 
singing in the Eares, stuffing in the Head, wearinesse or dulnesse of the Eyes, distillation of 
Rheumes and corrupt humours falling from the head into the Throat and Wind-pipe, weak Pulse 
and inordinate, drowsinesse of mind, loathing of the Stomack, intemperate or unseasonable 
Sweats, hot within, cold without, more afflicted by night then day; if Moon be not favoured by 
the aspect of any good Planet , without doubt 


The Resolution of 


the sick party will dye, God sending no extraordinary remedy. To loosen the Belly represses the 
grief, to let blood is ill. 


MOON IN TAURUS (CONJUNCT- SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Feavers proceeding from obstructions and distemper of the Ppaecordiacks and Arteries, viz. of 
the inward parts neer the Heart, Liver and Lungs, occasioned by too much Luxury, or from 
Surfets or inordinate Repletion; their Pulses are lofty and high, but immoderate, an inflation or 
puffing up of the Body, ulceration of the Lungs; if the Moon be not supported with some gentle 
aspects of the Fortunes, the party will hardly live fourteen dayes; but if the Moon be, as 
beforehand, in any good aspect, beyond expectation the sick will recover. Those Medicines 
which purge or dissolve grosse Humours, and Phlebotomy are good.. 


MOON IN GEMINI (CONJUNCT — SQUARE — OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Who fall sick, the Moon in Gemini, afflicted of Saturn, by Conjunction, Square or Opposition, 
have the original of their Disease, occasioned by wearinesse of the mind, and over-burdening it 
with multiplicity of affaires, or some wearinesse in 275oistu, or over-much exercise of body, 
feare of a small Feaver, the paine disperses itself all over the body, but principally in the Arteries 
and Joynts. 

I find the Vitals much afflicted when Moon is in Gemini, at the time of any ones Decumbiture, 
and the sick inclinable to a Consumption; with such the Pulse is rare and little, afflicted with 
frequent sweatings, Simptomes of the Spleen, and the Disease more troublesome in the night 
then in the day; if Mars, together with Saturn, at the same time afflict the Moon, most Authors 
hold, the sick will not live above ten dayes, unlesse the favorable aspects of Jupiter or Venus 
intervene, and then after a long time, the sick may recover. 


MOON IN CANCER (CONJUNCT — SQUARE — OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Who fals sick the Moon afflicted of Saturn in Cancer, is much afflicted in the Brest with tough 
melancholly Matter, or with filmy, thick Flegme, is vexed with Coughs, or abundance of Spittle 
and 275oisture, Catarres, Hoarcenesse, distillation of Rheumes, or descending of Humours into 
the Brest, their Pipes are narrow and obstructed, small Feavers, and many times feare of the 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


Quotidian Ague; but usually a Quartan Ague followes, holding a long time, Belly ake, or some 
infirmnesse in the Reynes or Secrets. If the Moon be decreasing and neer the Body of Saturn, 
The sicknesse will continue a great space of time; and if together with heraffliction, the Lord of 
the Ascendant be impedited by the Lord of the 8th, there’s small hopes of recovery. 


MOON IN LEO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Those who lye down or first complaine, the Moon being impedited of Saturn in Leo, the 
sicknesse shall proceed of ill melancholy Blood, the sick will be oppressed with unkindly heat in 
the Brest, intension of the Heart-strings, with violent Feavers, the Pulse are troubled, externall 
and internall Heats doe much annoy the sick, sometimes they are taken with a fit of the Stone, or 
faintnesse of Heart, or Swooning, and if the Disease does continue long, the sick is in danger of 
the Black-jaundices. 

Such things as gently moisten and heat, are good for the Diseased; when the Moon comes to the 
Opposition of Saturn, if the Sextile, Trine or Conjunction of Jupiter or Venus afflict not, many 
times the sick dyeth. 


MOON IN VIRGO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSTION) SATURN 

The Moon in Virgo afflicted by Saturn, the Sicknesse proceeds from Crudities and evill digestion 
in the Stomack, and from too much viscious Flegme obstructing the Bowels and Intrailes, 
pricking or shooting under the Ribs, inordinate Feavers, many times I find the sick afflicted when 
the Moon is in Virgo in aspect of Saturn with the Wind-chollick, with extreme Melancholly, with 
the Gout or aches in the Thighes and Feet, &c., things which mollifie heat and dissolve, are most 
proper for the sick; when the cause of the Disease originally rises from this configuration of the 
Moon in Virgo, unfortunated by Saturn, I seldom find by experience but that the Diseased 
continues sick a great while; for Virgo is an Earth Signe and Saturn is Slow. 


MOON IN LIBRA (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

The Moon in Libra afflicted by Saturn, the Disease has its originall form some Surfet of Wine, 
Gluttony, or Meat not fully digested, or too many Venery, the Brest is disaffected, so also the 
Head, no appetite to eat, a loathing in the Stomack, the 


The Resolution of 


Cough, Hoarcenesse, distillation of Rheums afflict him: I have found the sick party, upon this 
aspect of the Moon to Saturn, to have been troubled with great panes in the Joynts, Knees and 
Thighes, and an itching in those parts, they fearing a Sciatica.. 


MOON IN SCORPIO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Saturn afflicting the Moon in Scorpio, the Disease is in Ano or Anglice [Arse-hole] usually an 
Ulcer there, or the Hemorroids or Piles, or some Exulceration or Bubo, [Anglice] a botch in the 
Privy-members. 

I find by experience, if a man or woman enquire upon the Moon her affliction by Saturn in 
Scorpio, there’s no retention of Urine, the party is vexed with the Stone in the Bladder, or with a 
swelling dropsical Humour, offending and swelling about their Knees and Legs. As also 
sometimes they have a Flux, if a man then the Gonorrea; if a woman, too much aboundance of 
Menstrua’s. 


MOON IN SAGITTARIUS (CONJUNCT — SQUARE — OPPOSITION) SATURN 

Saturn afflicting the Moon, the diseased party is sensibly oppressed with Deflux of subtill, thin 
sharp Humours, griefes in the Arteries or Joynts, feare of a Feaver, extremeties of heat and cold, 
many times a double accesse of a Feaver. What mitigates heat gently, and moystens, is good for 
such people as fall sick under this aspect. 

I find by experience, that the Moon in Sagittarius, afflicted by a Conjunction of Saturn, doth 
cause the Disease to proceed from Blood infected with choller and melancholly, and many times 
by too great paines-taking, or violent exercise, and cold thereupon taken. Upon the Opposition of 
the Moon and Saturn, for the most part the sick has a spice of the Gout, or some Tumour or 
Swelling in the Hands, or Thighes, or Feet &c. If Mars have any ill aspect to the Moon as well as 
Saturn at time of first falling sick, it proves a violent burning Feaver. 


MOON IN CAPRICORN (CONJUNCT — SQUARE — OPPOSITION) SATURN 

The Disease proceeds from Cold and Melancholly, with subtill, thin Distillations, heavinesse of 
the Brest and Stomack, difficulty of breathing, dry Coughs, the Lungs oppressed, intended 
Feavers, more pained in the night then in the day-time. Medicines that heat and moysten 
moderately doe availe in this Disease. 

The party will still complain of the Head-ach, or paine in the left Eare, or of a Rumbling or 
Noyse in his Head. 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


MOON IN AQUARIUS (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

The Sicknesse hath beginning, or is occasioned from too much labour, wearisomenesse or toyling the Body and 
Minde, want of sleepe and due refreshment of nature: The Malady ceaseth on him unequally, with remission and 
intension, untill the Moon have past the opposition of her owne place, then if your Fortunes have any good Aspect to 
the Moone, the sicke is recoverable. 

I finde the sicke complaining or lying downe under the preceding malevolent Aspect, to be grieved with winde or 
noyse in the head, with faint fits or passions of the heart; or many times they have either a sore throat, or are 
troubled with a rising there, and in danger of suffocation. 


MOON IN PISCES (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) SATURN 

The Malady its cause, is from cold distillations; the party is afflicted with continual Feavers, oft and continuall 
sighings, pricking or shooting under the Paps, extensions of the precordiacks and hart-strings. 

I find the Sicke have surfeited by some extremity of cold, that their throat is oppressed with thicke fleagme, and 
their brest is troubled with a rotten cough and aboundance of watery matter lodging there.. 

Those Medicines that heat and gently califie are good in these cases. 


As we have treated of such Diseases as may afflict any one upon their first falling Sicke or Decumbiture, the Moon 
being in any of the 12 Signes and oppressed by Saturn, or indeed by Mercury.. So now we will endeavour to chew 
the quality of the Disease from the Moon her affliction from Mars or the Sun through the 12 Signes of the Zodiacke. 


MOON IN ARIES (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

Who fall sick the Moon in Conjunction, Square or Opposition of Mars in Aries, their disease shall proceed from a 
distempered affection of the Membranes or Pellices of the braine, continual Feavers, no rest or quietnesse. An hot 
thirsty mouth, extreme thirst, drynesse of the tongue, hot Liver or inflamation thereof, much heat in the Brest, high 
and sublated Pulses, keeping no order, a Phrensie may be feared, or deprivation of Senses: letting of Blood and such 
things as do coole and nourish are very helpfull. 


The Resolution of 


If the Moon next after her separation from the Malevolent beames or aspect of Mars doe apply to Conjunct or 
Opposition of Saturn, and she decreasing in light and slow in motion, there’s small hopes of life; let the sicke 
prepare for God. I finde, usually the Moon being in Aries afflicted of Mars, the party is almost ready to run mad, or 
hath some extreme paine or griefe in his Belly or smal guts occassioned by chollericke obstructions.. 


MOON IN TAURUS (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

The party falling sicke, has too much abundance of ill Blood, continuall Feavers, the whole frame of the body 
obstructed, inflamation of the throat, neck and hinder—part thereof, ach of the bones, ungentle slumbers, but no 
sleepe, a foolish longing after Wine and cold water. Blood letting and such things as moderately coole or allay heat 
are necessary. 

I finde Moon in Taurus afflicted by Mars, the Patient is afflicted with the stranguary, or stone, or gravell in the 
Reines and Kidneys, with pestilent soare throats, or hoarsenesse, or some malignity there in that member. 


MOON IN GEMINI (CONJUNCT - SQUARE — OPPOSITION) MARS 

Who takes his or her Bed the Moon in Gemini afflicted by Mars, usually shews he or she shall undergo a violent and 
dangerous Feaver, obstructions; high and inordinate Pulses attend such; the blood is too hot, and a necessity there is 
of emission of blood. The whole body being neer corruption, by reason of the ranknesse of blood.. 

I finde those falling sicke the Moone in Gemini afflicted by Mars, to be pained all over the body, the Disease in no 
place 279ettled, their Blood extremely windy, corrupted, and what not, some lameness or grief in their Arms or 
Joynts, and afflicted with the stone or heat in the reines, and sometimes spitting of blood. 


MOON IN CANCER (CONJUNCT — SQUARE — OPPOSITION) MARS 

The Moone afflicted by Mars in Cancer, the Sicke is sensible of great abundance of sweet fleagme in his stomacke, 
hath too much ingurgitated, or taken some surfeit, oft vomits or desires so to do, with eversion or turning of the 
ventricle. 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


I finde, usually it is a meer surfeit gotten by riot and excesse, and most that I have seen thus 
afflicted have been cured by Vomit; many times it turns to a loosenesse, or a rotten filthy cough, 
sometimes spitting of blood. 


MOON IN LEO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

In this case too much blood abounds and thereby strong Feavers, very weake Pulses, raving and 
strong raging fits, a disturbed Braine, depravation of appetite, heavinesse and drowsinesse all 
over the body, many distempers of the heart; the body in danger of a Consumption; usually they 
dye about the ninth day after the first falling sicke, if other configurations of heavens accord. I 
finde the Blood over—heated, the party almost starke raging mad, choller in excesse abounding, 
the body over—dryed, a probability of the Plurisie; faintnesse and swooning, or the heart very 
much afflicted; I evermore feare this dangerous Conjunction or Opposition of Mars and the 
Moone in this Signe, more then in any other of the Zodiacke. 


MOON IN VIRGO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) | MARS 

Usually in alteration or flux in the Belly, or miseraicks followes this unluckie position, small 
Feavers, the originall choller and melancholly, the Pulse remisse, eversion of the ventricle 
loathing of food; death within 30 days, if the Fortunes assist not. 

I have by experience found, the afflicted upon this aspect or aspects, to be tormented with the 
winde, chollicke, many times weaknesse in the legges or neere the ancles. Yet I did never finde 
any Disease easily removeable, if the Moone at time of the decumbiture, or first falling ill, was 
afflicted by Mars in Virgo. 


MOON IN LIBRA (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

The Patient is grieved with plenitude of Blood, and from that cause hath intended Feavers, high 
Pulses, abstains from sleepe, has no naturall rest, an inflamation all over the body. I observe in 
this kinde, sick people upon this kinde are oppressed with Blood over-heated, have taken some 
surfeit by disorder in dyet; many times have the stone or gravell in their kidneys, or great heat 
therein. 


The Resolution of 


Glister, and such things are gently coole, are best in this nature; many times the Disease is all 
over the Body, in every part; and most violent burning Feavers follow. Blood letting is good. 


MOON IN SCORPIO (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

Its neither better or worse with the party inquiring, but that he or she hath some grievous 
infirmnesse in his or her privie parts. There’s usually some exulceration, the Pox small or French 
(or Mesels, if children) the Hemerods or Pyles. 

I observe the Sicke offended with snafling in the Head, or some grievous colds or rheumes in 
that member; if the party looke like a wanton, the French Pox or Gonorrea or burnt Prick, 
without more words I doe judge: many times I find the party scabby and oppressed with 
breakings out, &c. 

This is corruption of Blood, &c. such things as heat and comfort, are now necessary; the Disease 
usually is a scandalous one. Let a modest party propound the Question; there’s cause to distrust 
foule play, &c. if a Man propound, the Wife may be faulty, &c. in Contrarlo. 


MOON IN SAGITTARIUS (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

Such an affliction of the Moone in Sagittarius intimates, the sick party is grieved with a very 
desperate Disease, occasioned from surfetting or gluttony, or too much repletion; he is tormented 
with high Feavers, with chollerick passions, with the Flux or Laske: the Pulses are few and faint, 
or beat slowly and weakly. If the sicke escape the 7th day, or know properly that day when the 
Moone comes to a true Square of the place she was in at first lying downe, there’s then hope of 
true recovery.. I daily find by experience, the sick party his Blood is over-heated by some 
inordinate exercise, that he burnes extreamly, sometimes the malignancy of the pestilent Feaver 
is such, he is twice or thrice let Blood; they are besides many times offended with the Hand and 
Foot-gout, or Itches and breakings out, and sometimes with sore Throats, &c. at other times 
sharp Rheume offend their Eyes.. 


MOON IN CAPRICORN (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 
Here appears no perfect concoction, Choller abounds, the sick desires to vomit, there’s 
inappetency of the Ventricle, a 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


swelling of puffing up in the Sinews, a Flux of the Belly followes immediatly, continual or oft 
returning Feavers, inflamation of the Brest, some Exulceration offends the party, or a cholerick 
humour his Hands or Joynts of his Fingers. Obstructive and contingent Medicines are usefull, 
their Pulses are remisse and slow. 

I find the sick inclinable to the Yellow-jaundies, their Countenance meagre, and their Persons 
exceeding leane, and that the Blood all over the body is disaffected, and the Disease is very hard 
to be cured by the most Learned; such usually have very little Blood, or their Blood is corrupted 
to purpose, or in the highest measure. 


MOON IN AQUARIUS (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

If the Moon be slow in motion, and decreasing in light, when a Disease first takes the party, and 
is afflicted of Mars, the Infirmity proceeds from most sharp and violent affections, or vehement 
passions; any favorable Planet casting his good aspect unto the Moon, either at her first Square to 
her owne place, or when she comes to Opposition of that degree of the zodiack she was in at the 
first lying downe, gives present remedy after twenty dayes. 

Experience hath informed me that upon the preceding aspects, especially upon the Opposition, 
the sick has been pained at the Heart, troubled with swooning fits, had a most desperate Feaver, 
the Blood swelling in all the Veines, high Pulses; sometimes they complaine of great paine in 
their Brest, and draw their Wind with great difficulty. 


MOON IN PISCES (CONJUNCT - SQUARE - OPPOSITION) MARS 

When the Moon is afflicted of Mars in this Signe Pisces, and is encreasing in light, and swift in 
motion, the Body is full of grosse Humours, the Disease proceeds from too much ingurgitation, 
swelling and drinking, the Disease is most prevalent in the night-time; the party is vexed with a 
phrenetick Out-rage or Delirium, hath sharp burning Feavers, vehement thirst and desirous of 
Wine. 

Usually I find, the party sick or enquiring, when the Moon is of Mars in Pisces so afflicted, 
oppressed with violent Loosenesse, and grievously complaining of paine in their Bellies, or an 
extraordinary rotten Cough, and continuall defluxion of Rheume 


The Resolution of 


from the Head into the Throat, the party almost suffocated therewith, their Bellies swollen, and 
they in danger of a Dropsie. 


Astrologicall Aphorismes beneficial 


For Physicians. 
1. In questions concerning sick People, give the Ascendant and his Lord and the Lord of the 
Figure for Significators of the sick party. 
2 From the Signe of the 6th, the Lord of that House, Planets therein placed, and place of 


Heaven and Signe wherein the Moon is, require the Disease or part afflicted, with relation 
to the Ascendant 

3. The 7th house represents the Physician, the 10th his Medicine; if the Lord of the 7th be 
unfortunate, the Physician shall not cure; if the 10th house or Lord thereof, his Physick is 
improper. 

4. The 4th house signifies the end of the sicknesse, and whether It will terminate quickly, or 
endure long: fixed Signes prolong, common Signes vary the Disease, moveable ones 
shew an end one way or another quickly. 

5. That Physician that first visits his Patient in the houre of Saturn, his Patient shall either be 
long sick, or long in curing, and suffers much torment in his cure; nor shall be cured, 
untill almost both Physician and Patient despaired. 


6. He that first enters upon a cure in the hour of Mars, shall find his Patient disaffected to 
him, and partly disdaine or reject his Medicines, his pains ill rewarded, and his person 
slighted. 

ie He that first visits his Patient in the hour of Jupiter or Venus, shall have good words of the 


sick, be well esteemed and paid for his paines. Though he faile of the cure, yet shall he 
receive no prejudice thereby; I meane, in point of estimation.. 

8. When a Urine is brought, let the Ascendant represent the sick Party, whether the Querent 
come with consent or no, for the Urine was sometimes of the essence of the sick. 

0: If no Urine or consent of the sick party come to the 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


15: 


16. 


17. 


18.. 


19, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Physician, then the Ascendant presents the Querent; but the person and sicknesse must be 
required according to the relation the Querent has to the sick party: A man for his servant, 
the 6th shall shew his person, not his Disease, that must be from the 6th to the 6th, which 
is the 11th, &c., sic. in allis where no consent is. 

But in every Disease have care to the place of the Moon, for she is a general Significatrix 
in all things. 

The sick party is in great danger of death, when at the time of the Question asked, or 
when the sicknesse first invaded the sick party, both the Sun and Moon are under the 
Earth. 

As no light is in this World without the presence of the Sun or Moon, so no safety, or 
hopes of recovery in the sick, when they are obscured or subterranean at first lying downe 
of the sicke, and it’s greater argument of death, if either of them be then afflicted. 

The Square or Opposition of the Fortunes, as it destroyeth not, so neither doth the 
benevolent aspect of the Infortunes profit, unlesse that aspect be with Reception. 

If the Sun and Moon, or Lord of the Figure, or Lord of the Ascendant, be free from 
affliction, and have no affinity with the Lord of the 8th, without doubt the sick party will 
recover; if two of these Significators be so affected, it will goe well with him, otherwise 
he dyes. 

The Lord of the Ascendant in his Fall, unfortunate or Combust, or else the Lord of the 
Figure, it’s doubtfull the sick party will dye of that Infirmity. 

When the Significator of the sick is feeble, and the Lord of the 8th strong and afflicting 
him, it’s much feared the sick party will dye of his then infirmnesse, nature being weak, 
and the Disease prevalent. 

If the Lord of the Ascendant be placed in the 8th, and received of the Lord of the 8th by 
some essentiall Dignity, though the Lord of the Ascendant receive not him againe, the 
sick party recovers beyond expectation. 

The Physitian may justly feare his Patient, when the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon 
do both apply by ill aspect to a Planet under the Earth; the contrary is to be expected, if 
they apply to a Planet above the Earth. The 12th, 11th, 9th, 8th, 7th houses are above the 
Earth, the rest under. 

The Lord of the 8th being on the cusp of the 10th, and the Lord of the Ascendant under 
the Earth, there’s great fear of recovery. 


20. 


2: 


22. 


23. 


24. 


25% 


20; 


Bie 


28. 


29; 


30. 


The Resolution of 


If the Moon be swift in course, and encreasing in light, and by a Sextile or Trine apply to 
the Lord of the Ascendant, though under the Earth, it hastens the cure, the more easily if 
any Reception be; the cure must needs be sooner if the application be above the Earth to 
the Lord of the Ascendant. 

If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 6th, or the Lord of the 6th in the Ascendant, it 
protracts the Disease, and is an argument of much affliction therein; so also doth the 
Square or Opposition of the Lord of the 6th to the Lord of the Ascendant. 

If the two benevolent Planets Jupiter and Venus be most powerfull in the Figure, judge 
well to the sick, or hope well; if the Infortunes be most strong, judge the contrary. 

The application of the Lord of the 4th, to the Conjunction of the Lord of the 8th, prolongs 
the Infirmity, and also signifieth Death, if the Lord of the 4th be an Infortune; of a 
benevolent expect the contrary. 

A Retrograde Planet Significator of the Disease, shews the continuance of it, and argues 
the Bodies Consumption, Backsliding and Relapse. 

The Significator being stationary, shews aptnesse and desire to vomit, and the oft change 
and variation of the Disease; but if he be Combust of the Sun, for the most part the sick 
dyes: and the reason is, a Planet stationary hath time to work mischiefe, because he 
moves not. 

A Significator in his Fall or Detriment, shewes ill and much danger, and argues much 
distrust and fear in the sick party.. 

The Ascendant and the Moon being afflicted, and the Lord of the one and Dispositor of 
the other not so, the Disease is in the Body, not in the Spirits: 

But the Ascendant and Moon free from misfortune, and their Lords unfortunate, the griefe 
lyes in the Spirits, not in the Body; but if both be afflicted, both Body and mind are 
tormented: so also, is a malevolent Planet behold the Ascendant and not the Moon, the 
Disease is in the Animals, not the Body, and so on the contrary.. 

The Lord of the 6th in the Ascendant, 9th, 11th or 10th house, the Disease is manifest; in 
the 7th or 4th, it lyes occult and not knowne, and so in the 12th or 8th. 

Moveable Signes easily cause the Disease to vary; fixed Signes make it long and 
permenent, and not without much difficulty; removeable, common Signes shew 
recidivation, or that it’s now here, now there, or that the sick party is much better at one 
time then at another. 


SL 


32, 


33. 


34. 


35. 


36. 


oi. 


38. 


39: 


40. 


41. 


42. 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


In the beginning of Diseases, ever feare the ill positure and affliction of the Moon, mix 
the signification with the well or ill being of the Lord of the Ascendant, and so judge of 
the good or ill attending the sick. 

If the Nativity of the sick may be obtained, observe if the Moon at the time of the first 
Decumbiture or Question asked, be then in a place where an Infortune was in the Radix, 
or in Square or Opposition thereof, the cure will goe on the more hardly, and be more 
difficult to overcome. 

If in the beginning of a sicknesse the Moon be in the 6th of the Nativity, 4th, 7th, 8th, 
12th, and both times there happens to be an Infortune, it doth manifest death, unlesse a 
Fortune at one of those times cast forth his benevolent Beames. 

When the Ascendant of the sicknesse is opposite to that of the Nativity, and is either the 
Ath, 6th, 8th, 12th, or 7th, the Ascendant of the Revolution being not the same, it shews 
hardly any recovery. 

When the Lord of the 2nd doth Infortunate the Lord of the Ascendant the sick shall not be 
cured without too much expense of his money; or if he dye, he spends most part or much 
upon his cure to no purpose. 

The Sun in the Ascendant brings usually health immediately; if in the 6th, the sicknesse 
presently changes; if the Lord of the 8th be Combust, the sick shall recover and not dye at 
this time. 

The Sun is the candle or light of Heaven, and that Spirit which clarifies and beautifies 
those Signes he is in, destroying natures enemies. 

Fear not the death of thy Patient if Jupiter be in good aspect to the Sun, although the Lord 
of the Ascendant apply to the Lord of the 8th.. 

When a sicknesse takes one first, at what time the Moon separates from combustion, the 
sicknesse will encrease untill the Moon doth come into Opposition of the Sun. 

The Lord of the Ascendant being unfortunate in the 8th, the Patient will much encrease 
the Disease and retard the cure by his ill government and carelessnesse. 

The Significator of the sick, Occidentall, denotes chronick Diseases; but Orientall, new 
sicknesse: consider the separation of the Moon, and as she separates or applyes, so will 
the Disease decrease or increase, &c. 

If Saturn be author of the Disease, it proceeds of Cold; if 


The Resolution of 


Mars or the Sun, it proceeds of Heat and Drinesse; and so doe in the signification of the 
rest of the Planets. 

43. | The Moon is more afflicted of Mars when she is encreased in light, and more oppressed 
by Saturn in her wane: beware in the beginning of a sicknesse when the Moon is thus 
unfortunated, and understand Mars doth more mischiefe when he is in masculine Signes, 
Oriental and above the Earth: doe the contrary in the judgment of Saturn. 


CHAP. XLV. 


A sick Doctor, what was his Disease? 
If curable? 





What part of the Body was afflicted. 


The Signe ascending in the Question is Scorpio, the Chelae notable fixed Stars neer the 
Ascendant, yet it is not afflicted by the 


All manner of QUESTIONS 


evill position or presence of any evill Planet; therefore I must next look to the 6th house, and see 
if it be afflicted, wherein I find Saturn in his Fall, who thereby afflicts that house, which 
naturally signifies Diseases by his unlucky presence; from whence I concluded, that from thence 
and from that house I must require the part or member of the Body afflicted or most grieved, as 
you may read page 244. 


Aries represents the Head, as you may see page 245. 
Saturn in Aries signifies the Brest, as page 112. 
Mars Lord of the Ascendant in Leo doth signifie the Heart. 


The Lord of the Ascendant is Mars, and him you find but lately separated from a Square Dexter 
of Saturn, both of them in Cardinall Signes, Mars at time of the Square in Cancer, which presents 
the Brest and Stomack: from hence I positively concluded, as to the parts of Body grieved, they 
were the Head, Brest, Heart and Stomack, and that there lodged in the Brest or Stomack some 
melanchollick Obstruction, the cause of all his disease and Misery. 


From what Cause the Sicknesse was. 


Saturn being principall Significator of the Infirmity, in his owne Termes, and the Moon in his 
house applying unto him, did prenote Melancholly, and such dry Diseases as are occasioned from 
melancholly distempers, and might abide in the Head and Brest: what Infirmities Saturn 
naturally signifieth, see page 244. how to make a right mixture, your Physicians best know, and 
what Diseases man may be subject unto in those parts, and may proceed from such causes as 
abovesaid. 


Mars Lord of the Ascendant was also in the Termes of Saturn, and the Moon out of his Termes, 
applyed to a Square of Sun, and he in Mars his Termes; so that Choller was a secondary cause of 
this Doctor’s sicknesse; and indeed when I came to speak with him, he was afflicted with great 
paine and rumbling in his head, very silent, dull and melancholy, slept very little, had a very dry 
Cough, and complained of great weaknesse and paine in his Brest, and at the Heart; his 
Complexion was betwixt black and yellow, as if there was inclination to the Jaundies; he had 
besides 


The Resolution of 


these, a lingering Consumption and great wearinesse all over him, and in every joynt, for the 
Moon is in an ayery Signe; and as Scorpio doth ascend, which signifies the Secrets, Stone in the 
Bladder; so doth also the Moon in Aquarius signifie the Secrets and Diseases therein, &c. so had 
he difficulty in making Urine, voyded red gravell, and was greatly pained in those parts, &c. 
Having my selfe little judgment in Physick, I advised him to perscribe for himselfe such 
Physicall Medicines as were gently hot, moyst and cordiall, whereby he might for a while 
prolong his life; for the Moon in the 4th in Sextile with Saturn, argues sicknesse until death: He 
dyed the fourteenth of August following.. 


Whether the Disease would be long or short? 


Saturn being author of the Disease, shewed it would be permanent, or of some continuance, as 
page 248. for he is a ponderous, slow Planet: besides, the Angles of the Figure are all fixed, the 
Moon and Sun both in fixed Signes, and in Square, out of Angles, both in the Termes of an 
Infortunate; Mars Lord of the Ascendant and 6th in a Fixed Signe; all these portend the longitude 
of the Disease: Besides, the Antiscion of Mars falls neer the Sun, and thereby afflicteth him, 
being the Luminary of the time. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. XLVI. 


Whether the Sick would live or dye, 
and what his Disease was? 





Judgment of the Figure aforesaid. 


The Signe Ascending, viz. Virgo, is in the Figure most afflicted by the corporall presence of 
Mars, who is partly Lord of the 8th house, therefore from that house and Signe must we require 
the Disease, cause, and member grieved: Aquarius being the Signe of the 6th, is fixed, afflicted 
by South Node, and Saturn who is Lord of the 6th house is in Taurus, a fixed Signe, earthly and 
melancholy, of the same nature and Triplicity that Virgo, the Signe ascending is of; the Moon a 
generall Significatrix in all Diseases, being afflicted by her proximity to Mars and posited in 


The Resolution of 


the Ascendant, in an earthly, melancholy Signe, together with the other Significators, did portend 
the Patient to be wonderfully afflicted with the Spleen, with the Wind—chollick, and 
melancholly obstructions in the Bowels or small Guts, small Feavers, a remisse Pulse; and as the 
Signe Virgo is the Signe ascending, and Moon and Mars therein, it argued, the sick was 
perplexed with distempers in his Head, slept unquietly, &c. (all which was true) 


I perswaded the man to make his peace with God, and to settle his house in order, for I did not 
perceive by naturall causes, that he could live above ten or twelve dayes.. 


And my reasons were, because all the Significators did promise no lesse then death: for first, Sun 
who was the temporall light at time of the Quere, and is (sons vitalis potentia) was in perfect 
Square of Saturn Lord of the 6th in Signes fixed. 


Secondly, the Ascendant was extreamly afflicted by the presence of Mars, he being naturally ill, 
and accidentally almost Lord of the whole 8th house. 


Thirdly, the Moon was neer Cauda Leonis, and afflicted by the crosse influence of Mars, in that 
house which signifies life, viz. the Ascendant 


Fourthly, the Moon did separate from the Sextile of Mercury, Lord of the Ascendant, in Signes of 
long ascensions (which is more properly a Square aspect) and did transfer his vertue to Jupiter 
Lord of the 8th. 


The sick dyed the 28th of July following, Mercury comming to the degree of the Sun in the 
Question, and therein to the Square of Saturn Lord of the 6th, the day preceeding; and the Moon 


to an Opposition of the Sun, the Moon that day transiting the degree of the 6th house at the time 
of the Question, viz. 14. of Aquarius, and Sun the cusp of the 12th. 


CHAP. XLVII. 
Of The Crysis in Diseases. 


Crisis is no other thing then a duel or contention betwixt nature and the infirmity; if nature at 
time of the Crysis 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


overcome the malignity of the Disease, it’s a good Crysis; if the sicknesse prevaile, it’s a 
pernicious and ill Crysis. Or 


CRY SIS is no more then this, viz. A sudden alteration of man’s body when he is sick, tending 
either to health or further sicknesse; for when this Crysis is, there’s a sharp fight, as it were, 
betwixt nature and the Disease, whether of them shall overcome. 


Dayes Criticall, Decretory and Chrysmall are all one, and intend no more then a certaine and 
more sure judgment of the infirmity afflicting, either more powerfully, or in a lesse measure at 
those times when the true Crysis is. 


The true Crysis is best of all taken from the moment of time when first the sicknesse invaded the 
Infirme; which if it cannot be had, then it may be taken (but not so certainly) from the very hour 
when first the Water is brought to the Doctor to advise for recovery: but if no Urine come, then 
when the Doctor first speaks with the sick party, and is demanded by the Infirmed what he thinks 
of his sicknesse, and what course he would advise for cure thereof. 


Every sudden and vehement motion of the Disease may be called a Crysis as Galen saith; or it is, 
not a locall motion altogether, but an alteration of the Disease. 


Or Crysis imports judgment in the Disease afflicting, and which way it will terminate, viz. for 
good or evil. 


Hypocrates will have Crysis to be an acute or swift reportation in Diseases, either to recovery or 
death: But, say some, in regard there are more Diseases to terminate in health then in death 
(except pestilentiall Diseases) where the matter and cause is so malignant and poysonous, that 
nature many times doth not attend a fight or combat with the Disease, whereby it cannot properly 
be called a Crysis; the definition of the Hypocrates will not well hold, unlesse it be in such 
Diseases as doe determine in a recovery of the sick party: So some say. 


Avicenna, in Canticis, agrees with Galen, and saith, Crysis (est velox motus morbi ad salutem vel 
ad mortem..) 


There are some that have contended, That although in diseases there is a Crysis, yet is it not 
caused by influence of the Celestiall bodies, but from inferior causes. 


The Resolution of 


Now if this were granted that Decretory or Criticall-dayes did proceed from inferior causes, then 
according to divers sicknesses and variety of humours, the severall Criticall—dayes were to be 
assumed, after a different way in tertians, quartans and continued Feavers: But this, as many 
learned say, cannot be, therefore it is more generailly received and concluded, that in regard of 
the great dominion and influence the Moon hath upon inferior Bodies, whereby she doth excite 
and stir up the humours, that she by her motion doth declare the true Crysis of the disease, and 
that it is required from the time of the sick parties first falling sick, and her recesse and accesse 
forward and backward to and from that place or degree of the Zodiack, wherein she was at the 
exact time of falling sick; or if that time cannot be procured, then as beforesaid, take her true 
place exactly rectified to the hour of the Patients first asking for advice.. I have hereunto inserted 
a Table, wherewith if you enter with the place of the Moon in Signe and degree, you shall easily 
discover when she comes to an Indicative day, when to a Semi— quadrate or halfe Crysis( when 
to a true Square, when to an Opposition ) which is called a full Crysis, and so for all the 
Indicative and Criticall dayes during the sicknesse, &c.. As for example; let the place of the 
Moon in the later Figure of the 16th of July 1645. be supposed the true period of beginning of a 
Disease, the place of the Moon is 15.42. Virgo; because 42 minutes doe almost make one degree, 
I enter with 16..degr.. under the Signe of Virgo in the 8th column, so that 16.degr. of Virgo is my 
Radix, or true place of the Moon; over against 16.degr. to the right hand, I find 8.30 over the 
head thereof Libra, so that when the Moon comes to 8.degr. and 31.min. of Libra, it was the first 
Indicative day, wherein the Physician might expect how the Disease then would shew it selfe; 
upon every Crysis or Indicative day, have consideration with what Planet the Moon is in 
configuration; if with a benevolent, expect some remisnesse in the Disease; if with a malevolent, 
a bad indication, &c. 


Next on the right hand to 8.30, Libra, you find 1 M, viz. when the Moon came to the first of 
Scorpio, she was then in Semiquadrate to her first place, and this is, as it were, halfe a Crysis, at 
what time the Disease might more or lesse manifest it selfe according to that aspect the Moon 
found at her being in 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


that first degree of Scorpio. In the next column on the right hand, you see 23.30. over it Scorpio, 
it tels you, when the Moon came to the 23. and 30.min. of Scorpio, it was a second Indicative 
day, whereby the Physician might further judge of the encrease or decrease of the Disease: In the 
next column you find 16. over it Sagittarius, when the Moon came to the 16th of Sagittarius there 
was then a true Crysis, at what time the Disease assuredly might be more fully discerned in one 
kind or other, and then, according to the aspects the Moon in that degree had to the Planets, good 
or ill, so might the Patient or Physician expect a better or worse Crysis: and so in the same 
continued line or column, you run round the Heavens, ever observing the Moon her comming to 
those places of the Zodiack, wherein she makes the Indicative or Criticall day, and what Planets 
she is then in aspect with, and whether in the Figure they promise good or ill: Besides this, you 
shall observe what dayes she transits the cusps of the 6th, 7th and 8th houses, and how then she 
is aspected of the benevolent or ill Planets. 


The Resolution of 


The Table Followeth. 








8 
i630] oft 30 | adie a0| oft 30 | ~2alie 30 [oft 30 | 2ahte 30 | 
M7 30| 10/2 30| 2517 30| 102 30 25/17 30| 102 30] 25/17 30| 10 
18 30| 11/3 30 | 2618 30] 11/3 30 26/18 30| 11/3 30] 26/18 30| 11] 
28 30| 21/13 30] 6/28 30] 21/13 30] 628 30| 21/13 30] 628 30| 211 
1 C30] 2315 30] 91F 30 | 23115 30] 81130 | 23/15 30] 81 L 30] 23 
2 30 | 24/16 30] 92 30 | 24/16 30] 92 30 | 24/16 30] 92 30 | 24) 
14 30| 628 30| 21/14 30] 628 30] 21114 30| 628 30| 21/14 30| 6 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


You must observe, that upon the Criticall day (but especially upon the first Quartill) when Moon 
meets with the body or aspect of a fortunate Planet, it’s very probable (if the party be ordained 
for life) that nature will be fortified above the disease; and this her good aspect or application is a 
good indication of health, and that the Physician now imployed shall restore the sick party to 
former health by most easie Medicines; but if she meet at that time with the unlucky aspect of an 
Infortune, it gives the Physician little hopes at present; the Crysis is then ill, and the Physician 
must more warily proceed, &c. formerly men did repute the 7th, 14th and 21st dayes for Criticall 
dayes; but in regard that the Moon her motion is sometimes more slow, at other times more 
quick, the precise day cannot be had without compute or calculation of her true motion; which 
how to doe, I have given sufficient direction in my Introduction. 


In giving Medicines, observe the motion of the Moon, for she 
Ari,Leo,Sag, the Attractive vertue is strengthened in the Plhegmatick. 
Being In: Tau,Vir,Cap, _ the Retentive is fortified in Sanguine people. 
Gem,Lib,Aqu, the Digestive in the Melanchollick. 
Can,Sco,Pis, | the Expulsive in the Cholerick. 
Moon in Cancer,Scorpio,Pisces, in Sextile or Trine to: 
Jupiter Purge Melancholly. 
Venus Purge Choller. 
Mars Sun Purge Plegme. 


The vertue retentive is stirred up from Saturn, by reason of his frigidity. 


Vegetative & Digestive by Jupiter 
Attractive & Irasicible by Mars 

Vital & Natural Potency by Sun 
Appetitive & Concupiscible by Venus 
Cogitative & Imaginative by Mercury 
Expulsive by Moon 

Fiery Signes stir up red choller, viz. Ari,Leo,Sag. 
Earthly Signes, Black melancholly Tau, Vir,Cap. 
Ayery Signes, Blood Gem,Lib,Aqu. 


Watry Signs, Spittle & Phlegme Can,Sco,Pis. 


The Resolution of 


I once intended a more large Discourse of Sicknesse, but Master Booker having promised to 
undertake that labour, I forebeare. 


CHAP. XLVIII. 


If a Servant shall get free from his Master? 


The first house, the Lord thereof, and the Moon, shall signifie the Servant; the 10th house and the 
Lord of the Signe shall denote his Master, let this condition be what it will be in this judgment; 
consider if the Lord of the Ascendant be joyned to the Lord of the 10th house, and whether it be 
a perfect Conjunction, whether by body or aspect, whether with reception or not: if it be a 
Conjunction by degree and minute, the Servant shall be freed easily, and in a short time; but if 
the Lord of the Ascendant be separated from the Lord of the 10th some few minutes, it’s an 
argument he is as good as freed already from his Master: if no such Conjunction or aspect be 
betwixt the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 10th, then have recourse to the Moon, and 
judge the same of her, as if she had been Lord of the Ascendant, &c. I mean if she be so aspected 
as abovesaid. 


But if neither the Moon or Lord of the Ascendant be separated from the Lord of the 10th, 
consider if either of them be separated from the Sun, or joyned with him, judge in the like nature 
of them as you would have done with the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 10th, the 
same aspects considered: but if the Question be determinate and not absolute, viz., if he demand, 
Shall I be freed from the service or slavery of this man my Master, in which I now live, or shall I 
ever be freed from his power? then see if the Lord of the Ascendant be cadent from an Angle, 
and have no aspect to the Ascendant, or is in aspect with any Planet in an Angle, or with a Planet 
that doth behold the Ascendant, or if he be in the 3rd or 9th, or joyned to a Planet in them; then 
say, he shall be freed from his service, and shall depart from his Master: say the same if you find 
the like aspects or have the same occasion, from the aspects of the Moon. 


But if the Moon or Lord of the Ascendant be in the Ascendant, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


10th, 7th, or 4th house, or if either of them be joyned to a Planet being in those angles, and that 
Planet be Direct, he shall not be delivered from his Master; but if the aforesaid Planets be 
Retrograde, it argues freedome, but with slownesse and difficulty: If the Lord of the Ascendant 
be impedited in the Ascendant, 10th, 7th or 4th, by corporall Conjunction of any ill Planet, or by 
his Square or Opposition, or if he be entring combustion, he shall not be freed from his service, 
&C. 


FINIS SEXE DOMUS 


(finish sixth house.) 


3B IG IG 2S 2S 2S 246 48 8 288 IS 2A 2 IR IR 24S 248 2 88 IS 2S 2 IC 2S 2S 248 248 8 IS 2S 2S 2 IR 2S 24g 248 8 28 21S 2 2 2k 2k 2g 246 fe 8 2K 2 OK 2K 2K OR 


The Significations of the SEVENTH 
HOUSE 


It signifies Marriage, open Enemies, Law-Suits, Controversies, 
Contracts, Warres, Bargaines, Fugitives, Thefts, &c. 


Because the Demands which doe naturally appertain to the 7th house, require more 
consideration, and are more difficult to judge then any other house, I have been enforced to be 
more large in delivering the opinions of the Ancients, as of some moderne Practisers; and have 
also published 43 significant Aphorismes; which, if well understood, will give great light, not 
only for better understanding what concernes this house, but the whole body of Astrology. 


The Resolution of 


APHORISMES and Considerations for 
better judging anv HORARY 
QUESTION. 


See the Question be radicall, or fit to be judged; which is, when the Lord of the 
Ascendant and hour be of one nature or Triplicity. 

Be not confident of the Judgment if either the Ist degrees or later of any Signe be 
ascending; if few degrees ascend, the matter is not yet ripe for judgment; if the later 
degrees arise, the matter of the Question is elapsed, and it’s probable the Querent hath 
been tampering with others, or despaires of any successe; however, the Heavens advise 
you not to meddle with it at that time. 

The position of Saturn or Mars in the 10th, and they peregrine or unfortunate, or the 
South Node in that house,. the Artist hardly gets credit by that Question. 

Judge not upon every slight motion, or without premeditation of the Querent, nor upon 
sight and triviall Questions, or when the Querent hath not wit to know what he would 
demand. 

Have speciall regard to the strength and debility of the Moon, and it’s farre better the 
Lord of the Ascendant be unfortunate then she, for she brings unto us the strength and 
vertue of all the other Planets, and of one Planet to another. 

Behold the condition of Saturn in every Question, he is naturally ill by his excesse of 
cold; Mars is of ill influence, because of his too much heat: in very truth, neither of them 
is cold or dry, but signifie so much in their vertue and operation, and therefore in all 
Questions they shew tardity and detriment in the Question, unlesse the Moon and they 
receive each other in the Signification. 

See the condition of Jupiter and Venus be observed, who naturally are Fortunes and 
temperate, and never import any malice, unlesse by accident: where they are Significators 
without reception, they put forward the matter, but they best preforme the matter in 
question when they apply by Trine or Sextile, and to purpose when in Essentiall 
Dignities. 

In every Question where Fortunes are Significators, hope well; but in Infortunes, then 
fear the worst, and accordingly order your businesse. 


10. 


11. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


ibe 


16. 


17. 


18. 


19. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Generally consider the state of the Moon, for if she be void of course there’s no great 
hopes of the Question propounded, that it shall be effected; yet if she be in Cancer, 
Taurus, Sagittarius or Pisces, your fear may be lesse, for then she is not much impedited 
by being voyd of course. 

See from what Planet the Moon is separated, that Planet shewes what has already been 
done: if from a Fortune good; if from a malevolent, ill; according to the nature of the 
house, &c. 

The Application of the Moon shewes the present condition of the thing demanded, viz. 
her applying by a good aspect, and in a good house, to a good Planet, intimates the strong 
hopes of the thing intended. 

The Application of the Moon to a Planet in his Fall, signifies anguish, trouble and delayes 
in the thing demanded. 

A Retrograde Planet, or one in his first station, Significator in Question, denotes ill in the 
Question, discord and much contradiction. 

We ought warily to consider if evill Planets be Significators in any thing, for if they 
predict evill in the thing quesited, the vengence is more heavy; if they foretell of any 
good, it’s lesse then what it expected, it’s imperfect, and nothing therein comes, without 
infinite solicitation and affliction, &c. 

A Planet that is slow in motion, prolongs the thing quesited after, so that it’s hardly 
performed; the nature of the Signe wherein the Planet is, doth herein much advantage the 
judgment. 

When Infortunes are Significators of any evill, doe you well consider if the Fortunes, viz. 
Jupiter or Venus, cast not any aspect unto them, then the evill intended formerly is 
lessened; doe so when the Fortunes are Significators. 

If the Fortunes signifie any thing, and are cadent, or ill placed in Dignities, or behold not 
the Ascendant, or are Retrograde, then are they impedited, and shall performe little, if not 
received. 

Notwithstanding Reception, if he be an Infortune, he performes but little; but if the same 
happen when the Fortunes are Significators, the thing is perfected. 

A Planet Peregrine, viz. having no essentiall Dignities where he is, he is malicious 
beyond expression; if he be in essentiall Dignities, the lesse; for then he is like a noble 
soule that hath his enemy in his clutches, but scornes to hurt him. 


20. 


21. 


22. 


23s 


24. 


22. 


26. 


2s 


28. 


The Resolution of 


And yet generalily, if Saturn or Mars be in House, Exaltation, Triplicity and Angles, and 
then have Signification in a Question, they performe the thing desired. 

Confide not too much in the assistance a Fortune lends, unlesse he be in essentiall 
Dignities; for then he performes matters wholly, else but by halves. 

When in a Question wherein both the Fortunes and Infortunes are either weak or equally 
ill placed, promise no successe upon that demand; deferre the Judgment untill the 
Heavens have a better Position. 

Beware in all Judgments, when the Significator of the question is either Combust, or in 
Opposition to the Sun, he will then signifie nothing of the matter, no good, nor is be able 
to bring anything to perfection. 

One Infortune joyned to another, if good be signified by their aspect, yet will it have no 
effect, or come to any thing: If they signifie evill, it’s probable that it may fall out with 
more malice then expected. 

The Lord of the Ascendant out of his essentiall Dignities, Cadent, &c., shewes the 
Querent is out of all hopes in his businesse. 

A Planet within 12 degrees of the Sun, is said to be under his Beames, and then hath no 
fortitude, let it be in what Signe it will; when a Planet is within 16 minutes of the Sun, he 
is said to be in Cazimi, or heat of the Sun, and then it’s an addition of fortune, and he is 
wonderous strong. 

See to what Planet the Significator commits his disposition, and if Orientall or 
Occidentall; if it be to Saturn, Jupiter or Mars, and they Orientall, the matter is sooner 
performed; later, if Occidentall, doe the contrary in Venus and Mercury. 

Observe if the Planet that is Significator of the thing desired, be in a fixed Signe, 
moveable or common: fixed Signes shew stability, and that the thing shall continue, 
whether it be begun, or is to be begun: common Signes shew the oft probability of 
perfecting the thing, and yet not its conclusion: moveable Signes shew a sudden 
resolution or conclusion of the matter one way or other. From hence we begin 
Foundations of Houses and Townes when Significators are fixed; short Journeys when 
they are in moveable: but in things wherein we define a mediocrity, we elect common 
Signes. 


29. 


30. 


a. 


Bye 


a5 


34. 


aD: 


36. 


37. 


38. 


39. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon with the Head or Taile of the Dragon, brings 
damage to the Question propounded; see in what house they are in, and receive 
signification from thence. 

Look whether the degree of the Ascendant, or place of the Signe the Significator is in, be 
the then place of any Eclipse at hand; though the matter propounded be in a faire way to 
be concluded, yet shall it insensibly receive prejudice when least is expected, and hardly 
be concluded. 

If you find the Moon impedited in any Question, be it what it will, there will be the like 
stay, demur or hinderance in the thing quesited; and indeed there’s seldom good end 
comes of a Question where the Moon is impedited; if it be in going to Warre, you may 
feare the life of the Querent; if in a Journey, ill successe; if Marriage, an ill end of 
Wooing, &c. 

If the Lord of the question or the Moon be in a Signe opposite to his owne house, as 
Mercury in Sagittarius or Pisces, &c., the Querent hath no good hopes of his demands, he 
despairs, nor doth he delight in it, nor doth he care whether it can be performed or not. 
Consider diligently the Planet impediting the Signifier of the thing demanded, and what 
house he is either Lord of, or is posited in; from the nature or person of that house require 
the cause obstructing. 

The neerer your Significator is to an Angle, the more good you may expect; lesse, if 
placed in a Succeedant house; little, if in a Cadent. 

In all Questions, know there’s not so great an affliction to the Moon, as when she is in 
Conjunction with the SUN; the ill aspects of the infortunes doth much afflict her, but 
none so powerfull as her Combustion. 

In any Question, see if an Infortune aspect your Significator, and whether they be both 
Peregrine, Retrograde, Cadent, or in Signes contrary to their owne nature, it may then be 
doubted they inferre such a mischiefe in the question, as is inevitable, according to 
naturall causes. 

Planets that are Significators in any thing, if they are in Conjunction, and in a Signe 
agreeing to their owne nature, then the thing quesited after is brought to perfection with 
much ease and facility, else not. 

Have special regard to the Significators, and whether any frustration or prohibition be 
before the perfect aspect: 

the Planet frustrating describes the party or cause hindering the matter demanded. 

Ever consider the Part of Fortune, which if well dignified in any house, the Querent gets 
by men, or things denoted by that house; and so, if ill dignified, damage from thence. 


The Resolution of 


40. In questions of Marriage, and unfortunate Planet in the 7th threatens ill agreement in 
Marriage, unlesse the same Planet be a Significator at the Birth. 
41. If the Lord of the 8th be impedited or unfortunate in the 
8th, the Querent shall receive prejudice by the death of some woman, or concerning some 
debts due unto him from men deceased. 
42. In what house you find Jupiter and Venus well dignified, you may expect benefit from 
such men and things as are Signified by that house; as if in the 3rd, from Kindred; in the 
Ath, from Father, or by Lands, &c. in the 5th by Play, &c. and so in other houses. 
43. Beware of men and things appertaining to that house wherein South Node is in; it seldome 
failes, but the Querent shall receive damage, scandall or slander from men and matter 
signified by the house he is in. 


CHAP. X LIX. 


Of Marriage. 


If a Question be asked of Marriage, behold the Ascendant and the Lord thereof, and the Moon, 
and the Planet from whom the Moon is separated, and give those for the Significators of the 
Querent; and the 7th house, and the Lord thereof, and the Planets to whom the Moon applieth, 
for the Signifiers of him or her concerning whom the Question is asked. If it be a man that asketh 
the Question, joyne the Sun and Moon with his Significators, and make him partner in the 
Signification; and if it be a woman, joyne Venus and Moon, and make them partners: afterwards, 
behold what application the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon hath with the Lord of the 7th, and 
what application that Planet hath from whom the Moon is separated, with the Planets to whom 
she doth apply, or Sun with Venus; for if the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon apply to the 
Lord of the 7th house, it doth signifie the Querent shall have his or her desire, yet with many 
petitions, solicitations and prayers: and if the application be by Square or Opposition, and with 
reception, it signifieth that it shall be brought to passe with a kind of slownesse, labour and 
travell: but if the Lord of the 7th apply to the Lord of the Ascendant, or 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


the Planet to whom the Moon doth apply, unto the Planet from whom she is separate; or if the 
Lord of the 7th be in the Ascendant, the matter shall be brought easily to passe, with great good 
will of the man or woman quesited after; chiefly if there be an application by Trifle or Sextile 
aspect. 


Aphorismes of AL KI N D US Touching 
MARRIAGE. 


When the Lord of the ascendant doth apply to the Lord of the 7th, or if the Lord of the 7th apply 
to the Lord of the Ascendant, it’s an argument the Marriage shall be preformed and done. Also, 

if the Moon doth apply to Venus, and she strong, increasing in her motion, and in some of her 
owne Dignities, and the Moon likewise, the Marriage shall be concluded: if Venus doth behold 
the Sun, and the Sun have any dignity in the Ascendant, and behold the Lord of his house, viz. 

of the Signe wherein he is, it doth signifie likewise the Marriage shall be concluded; but if the 
Planet applying, and he to whom he doth apply, be cadent from the angles, and especially if their 
Lords doe not behold them, it doth signifie there shall be good hopes at the first, but by dallying 
and tracting the time, there shall be trouble, and no Marriage at all performed: Also if Moon, 
Sun, Venus and Lord of the 7th, and Lord of the Ascendant be in angles, and they beholding one 
another, or if their Lords behold them, though with Square or Opposition, yet it signifieth the 
matter shall be first in despaire or suspended, but afterwards it shall by the will of God, be 
brought to passe, and finished by the consent of all parties. 


Of Marriage, whether it shall take effect or no? 


Give unto the Querent the Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon and the Planet from whom the Moon 
is separated; and to the party enquired, the Lord of the 7th, and the Planet to whom the Moon 
doth apply; and if the Querent a Man, then adde the Sun, but if a Woman then adde Venus. Then 
behold what application there is between the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 7th, for if 


The Resolution of 


the Lord of the 7th be in the Ascendant, or apply to the Lord thereof, it will willingly be 
consented to by the party desired; If the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon apply to the Lord of 
the 7th, or be in the 7th, the Querent shall obtaine his purpose by his owne labour; but if none of 
these happen, yet if there be translation of light between them, then it shall be effected by the 
meanes of Friends or Acquaintance; also the Moon in the 10" signifieth the same, also, the 
application of the Moon with Venus effecteth the matter, but by mediation of friends: also the 
application of the Sun and Venus, especially when Sun hath dignity in the 7th, idem: if the Lord 
of the 7th be in the Ascendant, or with the Lord of the Ascendant, or behold him with a good 
aspect, it doth give great encouragement for effecting the matter. 


Of Marriage. 


If a man aske, his Significators are; First, the Lord of the Ascendant: Secondly, the Moon; 
Thirdly, the Planet the Moon is separated from; Fourthly, Sun, the naturall significator of men. 


The Significators of the Woman are; the Lord of the 7th, the Planet the Moon applieth to, the 
Planet in the 7th, Venus the naturall significatrix of women: the like judge for the woman if she 
aske the Question, (mutatis mutandis) that is, the Ascendant and other significators, and Venus; 
the question asked by the woman, the 7th and his Lord, the Planet the Moon applies unto; these 
are for the man, the Ascendant and his Lord, the Planet the Moon is separate from, the Moon and 
Venus, so the Querent hath three Significators, the party desired hath also three: It shall be, if the 
Lord of the Ascendant or Moon be in the 7th; secondly, if the Planet the Moon separates from, 
applies to the Planet the Moon applies to, thirdly, or the Sun and Venus apply to each other; 
fourthly, the Lord of the Ist in the 7th, or 7th in the first; fiftly, any translation of light from the 
Significators, or Reception of the Significators, or any collection by a more weighty Planet, it 
shall be, viz. one in Termes, the other in the Triplicity of the Significator, or the like. The 
signifiers in interchangeable Dignities, the Moon in 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


the 7th giving vertue to the Lord of the Ascendant, or Lord of the 7th. 


Which love most, or desire it most. 


The Lord of the 7th in the Ascendant, the party desired loveth best: The Lord of the Ascendant in 
the 7th, the Querent loveth best; and so with the other significators, for those that apply argue 
most love, &c. The Lord of the 7th in the 7th, especially in one of his owne houses, the party 
desired is free from love, hath little mind to Marriage, and her Portion is knowne, or the mans. 


The significators of the party desired, not beholding the Significators of the Querent, noteth the 
love of some other more then the Querent, or an aversnesse to the party now enquiring. 


The application of the Significators frustrated, notes the Marriage to be broken off, by such 
person or thing as that Signifier noteth, which you may know by the house he is in & Lord of, 
viz. if by the Lord of the 2nd house, want of Riches; if Lord of the 3rd, by the Brother, &c. 
contrariwise, the Marriage being presaged by translation of light, or collection, it shall be 
furthered by such a one (as above mentioned) viz. if by the Lord of the 2nd, by some friend 
promising Dowry; 3rd, a Brother; 10th, a Mother; 5th or 11th, a Friend; 6th, an Unckle, Aunt, or 
a 

Servant: Where note, that Marriages promised by Conjunction Square or Opposition, note 
performance with much adoe; Trine or Sextile, easie; with Reception, best of all. 


What shall be the occasion of hindring the Marriage. 


Having carefully observed, that although there seem great probability of effecting the Marriage 
enquired of, yet you find just cause to judge, it shall not either really be acted, or much 
obstruction will be before it can be done; and you are desirious to know from where the 
impediment shall come, the better to prevent it; consider what evill Planet it is who doth hinder 
the Reception of the disposition of the Significators, viz. of the man and woman, or who 
frustrates their aspect, or prohibits them, or interjects his Rayes betwixt the Significators; if he be 
the Lord of the 2nd, they break off on the Querent’s behalf, Money or 


The Resolution of 


Fortune being wanting on that side, or poverty objected: if it be the Lord of the 3rd, the Querent’s 
Kindred, Brethern or Sisters, or some untoward Neighbor, or some Journey &c. if the Lord of the 
Ath, the Parent will not agree, he will part with no Lands, no House, Houses or Tenements, will 
settle no Estate: if the Lord of the 5th, Children may be the occasion (if either party have any;) or 
if a Batchelour propounds, perhaps it’s objected, he either is not capable of getting a Child, or 
that he hath had a Bastard, or is scandalized about such a thing, or that it’s feared the party will 
be wanton, or given to luxury, too much to his pleasure and pastime, &c. vary your rule, and it 
serves if a woman propounded, &c. If it be the Lord of the 6th, either some of his Fathers 
Kindred, viz. some Unckle or a Servant, or the like, or some infirmity or sicknesse in the Querent 
may be the cause impediting. 


If it be a Planet in the 7th, some other he or she Friend will impedite, or a publick Enemy, or one 
he or she have formerly had variance with, or a Law-suit, &c. 


If it be the Lord of the 8th, it may be feared Death will bereave the Querent of Life ere the 
Marriage, or the quesited hath not a sufficient Portion, their Estate is disliked, it gives no content, 
it will not be accepted. 


If the Lord of the 9th, one or other of the quesited’s Kindred or difference in Religion, or some 
busie-headed Priest, or by reason of some Journey to be undertaken by the querent, &c. 


If the Lord of the 10th the Father of the Quesited, or Mother of the Querent, or some principall 
man, Officer or Magistrate. 


If the Lord of the 11th, the Friends of both parties dislike the Match, or such as at first brought 
on the matter, will now endeavour to dissolve the match. 


If the Lord of the 12th, then there is some under-hand dealing and much juggling in the 
businesse, the matter shall be much retarded, and the Quererit shall never know by whom; the 
Querent is much slandered, or some scandall privately insinuated doth much wrong, and will 
quite break the matter. 


As you have notions whereby you may understand what may be the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


obstacle in any Marriage, so by the same rules, rightly varied, you shall find who will afflict or 
befriend the Querent in his suit, or will endeavour to do him good therein; I have herein dealt 
very candidly, and expressed the whole truth. 


Whether a man shall Marry. 


If the Moon behold the Sun or Venus by a good aspect, or the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 
7th, or the Lord of the 7th in the Ascendant, or either of them behold other with a good aspect, it 
signifieth Marriage to the Querent. 


I observe, if the Significators be in Prolificall Signes, or Dignities of Venus, the party enquiring 
doth marry. 


The time of Marriage. 


The degree of the application of Moon to Sun or Venus, or Lord of the Ascendant to the Lord of 
the 7th, or Lord of the 7th to the Lord of the Ascendant; if it be in moveable Signes, Dayes; in 
common Signes, Moneths; in fixed Signes, Yeers; according to that time the Marriage shall be 
performed. 


This must be understood when you find strong testimonies of Marriage, and that the Significators 
are swift. 


How many Husbands a woman shall have. 


Behold from the degree of the 10th house to the degree of Mars, and so many Planets as you 
shall find between them, so many Husbands shall she have; but if Mars be in the 11th house, then 
look from Mars to Jupiter, and judge accordingly: some judge from Mars to the Lord of the 10th; 
these rules are Arabicall: plurality of Husbands is best adjudged from the Lord of the 7th and 
Sun, Mars being in common Signes, or many Planets in the 7th, or Sun in Sextile or Trine to 
many Planets in the 7th, argues plurality, or more than one. 


The Resolution of 


From what part one shall Marry. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the 9th, he shall marry a Stranger, &c. if the Lord of the 7th and of the 
Ascendant be in one quarter of Heaven, or in one house or Signe, usually the party marries one 
neer to the place of his own abode: consider the Signe of the 7th, the Signe and quarter of 
Heaven the Lord of the 7th is in, and judge by the major testimonies, from what part of Heaven 
the party shall live whom the Querent shall marry; as if most concurre in South testimonies, the 
South; mix the quarter of Heaven and Signe, preferring the Signe before the quarter: but this will 
be best explained upon an example. 


What manner of person he or she is. 


For the man, note the Planet the Moon is with; as if with Venus, say she is faire, slender and 
pleasant; and for the woman, judge by the Planet the Sun beholdeth; Sun in Trine or Sextile of 
Saturn, wife and painfull; Sun aspecting Jupiter, honest; and so of the rest; the Sun and Moon in 
Square or Opposition, note contention, separation and discords. 


Whether man or woman be more noble. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in an angle, and the Lord of the Ascendant in a succeedant house, the 
woman is best descended; and so if the Lord of the Ascendant be in an angle, judge accordingly; 
in like manner one may judge of two Companions, or any one else: A most assured way is, by 
observing which of the Significators is most superiour, and most potential in essentiall Dignities; 
if no such thing be, who is best placed in an angle, is most noble; and this will not faile. 


Who shall be Master of the two. 


Behold the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon; if the Moon or the Lord of the Ascendant be 
received in an angle, and he that is the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


receiver be an heavy or ponderous Planet, the Querent shall be Master; and whether Significators 
shall be found weak, ill dignified, or in cadent houses, that party shall be subject. 


Whether she be rich or not. 


If a man ask, see the Lord of the 8th, or Planet in the 8th, for if they are strong, or Moon 
applying to the Lord of the 8th by a good aspect, then she is wealthy (&c., e contra, poor;) if the 
woman ask of the man, and of his estate, judge after the same manner. (eadem est ratio.) 


Whether the MARRIAGE be Legitimate. 


If the Significators of them, either of the man or woman be vitiated or joyned to Saturn or Mars, 
and they not Significators in the Question, or if they be with South Node, it sheweth unlawfull 
Marriage, viz. there hath been some wrangling or claime laid to the party by some former man or 
woman. 


How they shall agree after Marriage. 


If the Figure performe Marriage, note if the Lord of the Ascendant and Lord of the 7th aspect 
each other with Trine or Sextile, they agree well: Moon beholding her Dispositor, or Lord of the 
Exaltation of the house wherein she is, with good aspect, idem: The Lord of the 7th more 
weighty, and in an angle, she will be Master, or strive for it: if neither the Lord of the Ascendant, 
or of the 7th be in angles, then note the weightier, for that party signified by him, shall be 
Master; Sun impedited, worst for the man; if Venus be impedited, worst for the woman; if the 
Moon be impedited or unfortunate, is ill for them both. 


Disagree. 


The Lord of the Ascendant and Lord of the 7th in Square or Opposition, Lord of the Moon 
impedited beholding the Ascendant, 


The Resolution of 


or Saturn, Mars or a Retrograde or Combust Planet in the Ascendant, doth note contention ever 
by the Querent, &c. e contra, judge the like if the Lord of the 7th suffer the same afflictions, that 
then the Quesited shall be the occasion of strife: the Moon in her fall, or at Square or Opposition 
with Saturn or Mars, or any Retrograde Planet, if the Moon then behold the Ascendant, noteth 
brawling ever moved by the woman; Saturn, Mars, South Node in the Ascendant, idem., if the 
question be asked by the man. 


Who shall be the cause of their Strife, 
or the author of their Good. 


If the Lord of the 3rd be that Planet who doth afflict or impedite, and he in the Ascendant or 7th 
house, it shall be by Brethern or Kindred; an Infortune in the 10th, notes brawling, and continuall 
chiding and wrangling: In the 4th, either a Divorcement or a willingnesse to it, or hinderance in 
Dowry; the Moon infortunate beholding the Ascendant, note brawling, separation and dishonest 
living: ill Planets in the 10th and 4th, ill persons make contention, or their Parents; no application 
between the Planet the Moon separates from, and the Planet unto whom she doth apply, notes 
contention alwayes: if the Moon doth aspect, or be in conjunction with Saturn or Mars, one of 
them shall dye quickly, or have some misfortune; if this conjunction be in the 10th or 4th, in a 
masculine Signe, the man shall suffer; if in a feminine Signe, the woman: The Moon in Trine or 
Sextile good Planets, declares gifts from Friends; Moon in Square of good Planets, by dead men; 
Moon in conjunction of good Planets, promises good by their owne industry and labour; if the 
Moon aspect Saturn or Mars, or be in the 12th or 8th, or voyd of course, they shall have both 
troubles, griefes and sicknesse; in angles, notes a probability of separation or long disagreements. 


That the Marriage shall be broken, 
and the cause thereof. 


Behold the Planet who receiveth the light of the Significators, if he be a heavy Planet, and be 
hindered by Square or Opposition 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


of an ill Planet, or be Cadent, the intended Marriage shall be broken off againe, though at present 
it is very feasible. Behold whether parties Significator is strongest, that party shall first marry 
after this dissolution. 

If the ill Planet that hindereth the Marriage be Lord of the 2nd or 8th house, it is for matter of 
Dowrey; if Lord of the 3rd, Brother; if Lord of the 4th or 10th, it is the Father or the Mother, or 
such like; and so judge for the rest. 

If there be an ill Planet that carries the light between the Significators, it shall be by meanes of a 
Messenger; describe that Planet, and you may notifie the party. 

That woman who doth depart from her Husband or become a Widdow, the Moon being between 
the 17th degree of Sagittarius, and the Ist minute of Capricorn, shall never returne or marry. (An 
Arabic Aphorism, not overmuch to be credited without consent of other Significators.) 

Whoso is Espoused to a Wife the Moon being in the first 12 degrees of Capricorn, shall lose her 
before marriage, or dye within 6 moneths, or live in discord with her. 


Whether a Man or his Wife shall dye first, 
and the time when. 


Behold the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the 7th, and see which of them goes first to 
Combustion, and if the Lord of the Ascendant, the Querent shall dye first; if the Lord of the 7th, 
the Quesited: The Lord of the Ascendant Retrograde or Combust, or in his Fall, or neer the Lord 
of the 8th, the Man; the Lord of the 7th in the, like case, the Woman: Sun unfortunate, the Man; 
Venus unfortunate, the Woman. 


Usually I observe, whose Significator is first Combust, and in what Signe; if he be Combust in 
Tropick Signes, as Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn, it portends death in a short time; If in 
common Signes, viz. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, Pisces, the time is longer: in Signes fixed, viz. 
Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius, it will be a longer time ere the party dye, &c. 


Which of the two shall live longest? 


Behold the Lord of the Ascendant, and of the 7th, which of these 


The Resolution of 


two are in the best place of heaven, best dignified, and in good aspect with Fortunes, and more 
remote from the presence or ill aspect of the Lord of the 8th house. That person shall live 
longest: Where you must observe, as to the Lord of the 7th, the Lord of the 2nd in the Figure is 
his 8th house, and so Lord of, or Significator of death. 


Whether she be a Maid, or Chaste, 
of whom the quere is. 


Look if the Lord of the Ascendant Venus and the Moon be found in fixed Signes, good Planets 
beholding them, then say,, she is a Maid, and chaste: But if in place of the Fortunes there be 
Infortunes, say she is neither a Virgin, nor chaste: especially if Mars be there, and he in the house 
of Venus without Reception: Also, if Moon and Sun behold themselves and Mars, she is no 
Maid; but if the Significators be in moveable Signes, Infortunes beholding them, say then she 
desireth a man very much, and that she refraines and restraines her concupiscence very much, 
and casts off her Suitors; yet, it is not to trust alwayes to this judgment, because the nature of 
women is changeable. 


The Significatrix of the woman in her owne essentiall Dignities, or in Trifle to the Sun or Jupiter 
with any Reception, or the Moon and the Significatrix in Trine or Sextile, in Reception, out of 
any mutuall Dignities, or Venus in Leo not afflicted, or the Moon in Aquarius, free from Square, 
Conjunct, or Opposition of Mars, I judged honesty, and I found it ever true. 


Whether A Damosell be a Maid or not. 


Behold the Ascendant and his Lord, and the Moon, and if thou findeth them fixed and well 
disposed, it signifieth she is a Virgin; but if they be in common or moveable Signes, or evill 
Planets be in fixed Signes beholding them, or aspect them any way, it is a doubt of Legerdemain; 
also Scorpio Ascending, argueth she is, or would be too familiar. 


In many things I dissent from the Ancients, and so in this; for if Mars be in Leo, and Scorpio 
ascend, the Querent is suspected and tempted, but yet is honest. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Whether a Woman be honest to her Husband. 


The Lord of the Ascendant, the Moon or Venus in fixed Signes, in aspect of the Fortunes, she is 
chaste; these being in aspect of the Infortunes, not chaste, chiefly with Mars; Sun or Moon 
beholding Mars, she is meretrix; Sun and Moon in no aspect, nor Mars with them, she is 
suspected a privy Harlot, rather privately wanton. 


I must change all sonnes of Art to be sparing in delivering judgment upon these queries, rather to 
be silent; for as men we may etre, and so by delivering an unlucky judgment, be authors of much 
mischiefe. 


Of a woman whether she be corrupt, or has a 
Lover besides her Husband or sweetheart. 


Behold the Ascendant and his Lord, and the Moon, and see if they be both in angles or fixed 
Signes, then say the Maid is a Virgin, and they lye of her, or what is reported is false: if the Lord 
of the Ascendant, and the Moon be in fixed Signes, and the angles be moveable Signes, she was 
tempted, but gave no credit or admittance to the Temptor. If the Moon be joyned to Saturn, 
Jupiter, Mars, Sun corporally by aspect, so that there is between them but 5 degrees or lesse, she 
is tempted of someone who has the effigies of that Planet to whom she is joyned; but if the 
Moon be joyned to Venus or Mercury, she is tempted by some woman for a man, but she makes 
not reckoning of the old or young Bawds words, but she laughs her to scorne: If the angles be 
fixed Signes, and the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon in moveable or common Signes (for in this 
judgment the common are of lesse importance) she hath been attempted, and is still tempted, but 
she is honest; and hath been formerly deluded, if she be with the North Node: but if then the 
Moon be with South Node, she has formerly offended, and is still guilty, nor will she amend 
hereafter; the same may be said of Mars, if he be in place of the South Node; yet Mars imposes 
not so much malice on the woman as South Node: generally the Moon in any Question with 
South Node, imports mis—treports of the woman, you may call them slanders. 


The Resolution of 


Whether a woman is honest. 
*This where suspition of the quesited’s honesty will hold true. 


The Moon in the last face of Gemini, the woman seems to be corrupt, if the Ascendant be a 
moveable Signe, or common, or if the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon be in moveable or 
common Signes she is no Virgin; The Lord of the Ascendant combust in a moveable Signe, the 
woman has been tempted and made a harlot by violence, or she was unwillingly drawn to 
lewdnesse; the Lord of the Ascendant in a fixed Signe, and the Ascendant fixed, though the 
Moon be in a moveable Signe, she is still a Virgin and honest; the Moon in the Ascendant with 
Saturn, the woman was abused by force, and not by her concent: If the Ascendant be a fixed 
Signe, and the Lord of the Ascendant in the 5th, or the Moon in the 5th, or the Lord of the 5th in 
the Ascendant, or both of them corporally joyned in one Signe, it seems the woman hath newly 
conceived, or was lately tempted; but if they be separated asunder by 3 degrees, it seems the 
woman is delivered, or free from the party she was lately in fear of. 


Whether A Woman Trades With Any But Her Husband. 


*These judgments must be carefully observed and well considered before judgment be 
propounded in the negative, viz. that she is not honest. 


Behold the Ascendant, his Lord, the Moon, and Planet from whom the Moon is separated, these 
are Signifiers of the Querent; the 7th house and his Lord, the Planet to whom the Moon is 
joyned, are the Signifiers of the woman: see to whom the Moon and Lord of the 7th is joyned, 
which if they be both joyned to the Lord of the Ascendant, whether with Reception or 
Conjunction, say, the woman is not faulty, but honest: but if the Lord of the 7th, or the Moon or 
either of them is joyned to the Lord of the Triplicity of the Ascendant, viz. to him that is Lord of 
the Diurnall or Nocturnall Triplicity then ascending, or if any of them is joyned to the Lord of the 
7th, and Moon is separated from the Lord of the Ascendant, it then seems she hath a Friend that 
she loves besides her Husband: the Lord of the 7th voyd of course, the woman hath no Friend. 


The Lord of the 7th, the Moon, or both, separate from any other Planet but the Lord of the 
Ascendant, and he not separated above 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


3 degrees, the woman did love another, but she hath now left him: the Lord of the 7th with the 
North Node, the Woman is blamelesse, without he be in Conjunction with some other Planet, 
then she is worthy to be blamed not, was also in times past, and in times to come will be; for if 
she be not faulty in act, she is in her desires and affections. 


The Lord of the 7th or Moon joyned with Mars, if the North Node be there, it seems the woman 
hath a Sweetheart whom she loveth, and that useth her company: If Mars be with South Node, 
and the Lord of the 7th be joyned as beforesaid, it minisheth the malice, and though the woman 
love some martial man, yet he cannot bring her under his Yoak, yet is the hard put to it, and much 
perswaded 


If Mars be with the Lord of the 7th, or with Moon, or in one Signe in Conjunction, or with South 
Node, the woman hath a Sweetheart in contract, not farre from her house; and if they be in 1 
degree, then he is in the house, and one of the familiars of the man that asks the Question, or of 
her owne Husband. 


If the Moon or Lord of the 7th separate from Mars, or Mars from him, or that they be separated, 
perchance the woman had a Lover before she knew her Husband, but now they have one 
forsaken the other, or they have forgot each other. 


Mars Lord of the 7th, or Moon Lady of the 7th, in Aries or Scorpio, and Mars beholding any of 
them, viz. either of the Signes, or Moon, or in Reception with one or other, viz. Moon and Mars, 
for if Mars did receive the Moon, she did a long time love one, but she hath little to do with him 
now: Moon Lady of the 7th, in Conjunction with Mars or Jupiter in any Signe whatsoever, the 
woman hath loved a certaine man, a Nobleman or a Bishop, viz. a man of better quality than her 
selfe, but if there be a mutuall Reception between them, they still love one another, or still some 
acts of kindnesse passe between them, and there wants nought but opportunity. 


The Lord of the 7th or Moon joyned to Mercury, the woman seems to love a young Clerk, or a 
Merchant, or witty, nimble Fellow. 


The Lord of the 7th joyned with Venus with Reception, with or without any aspect, or else by a 
Trine or Sextile, or Square 


The Resolution of 


without Reception, the Woman cares not for men, but hath a friendship with women, or speaks 
wantonly, but is not naturally lewd or vitious. 


The Lord of the 7th or Moon in Conjunction with Saturn, the woman loveth an Old Man, or a 
Religious man, or a Country-man or a man of plaine sober carriage. 


The Lord of the 7th joyned to the Sun, she loveth at present, and did love a certain great person, 
according to the quality of the Demandant; if it be with Reception, he hath or may have, if he 
please, to doe with her; but if it be without Reception, he cares not for her, but hath quite 
forsaken her: But if more Planets doe behold the Sun as well as the Lord of the 7th, especially 
Saturn or Mercury, more men hath had to doe with her, nor is she yet amended, but somewhat 
tardy, &c. 


If ones Lover or Wife hath a Sweetheart besides himself. 


See if Mars be in the 7th house, so that he be not in his owne house, then she hath none; if Saturn 
be there, she loveth one but lyeth not with him; if Jupiter be there, she hath much adoe to be 
honest; if Venus, she is a merry wag, and is thought to be wanton, but is not: if Mercury, she had 
a Friend but hath not now; if Moon be in the 7th, she as yet hath none, but she will have, and will 
be common: if Sun or North Node be there, she is chaste and hath no Friend: After the same 
manner you may judge of Friends, or of the man, when the woman propounds the Question. 


Hath she a Lover? 


Any Planet in the 7th, (so he be not the Lord of the 7th) she hath one of his complexion, (if none 
be in the 7th, none;) thus doe for the man, but have relation to the 11th house: The Lord of the 
7th voyd of course, she hath none; or with the North Node, idem: the Lord of the 7th or Moon 
joyned to Mars, she hath a Sweetheart, or one whom she is familiar withall, that she doth much 
respect, but I say not in any dishonest way. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


If a Marriage shall be perfected or no. 


Consider the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon, these are properly Significators of the 
Querent; the 7th house and his Lord are for the Quesited. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant or Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 7th, in any of the dignities of 
the Lord of the 7th, and in the Ascendant, 11th or 10th, hardly in the 7th, the querent shall 
obtaine the party desired. 


If both Significators behold each other with Sextile or Trine, out of the Ascendant and 11th, or 
9th and 7th, or 7th and Sth houses, with or without Reception, no prohibition, frustration or 
abscission, or Retrogradation of the principall Significators intervening, the Match will be 
concluded if the querent please, (for we doe suppose a freedome of will in this , nature) if a 
Square or Opposition be between the Significators (and no Reception) the matter will come to 
nothing. 


A Square aspect with Reception of Significators, perfects the matter, but with a little difficulty; if 
no Reception be, there’s onely hopes, no grounds whereby to judge the thing shall be effected 
really. 


Contrary to all the rules of the Ancients, I have ever found, that when the Lord of the 7th hath 
been in the Ascendant, the Querent hath loved most, and when the Lord of the Ascendant was in 
the 7th, the Quesited loved best. 


If the Significators aspect not one another, but some Planet transferres their influence one to 
another, and this with a benevolent aspect, then shall the matter be brought to passe by one 
signified by that Planet, whose description you may frame according to the Signe wherein he is, 
and his quality from the house he is Lord of. A masculine and diurnall Planet denotes a man; a 
feminine, nocturnal] Planet, or a man of a feminine construction, &c. sic e contrario. 


If a Planet transfers the Significators disposition, observe who that Planet is, and to whom he 
commits his disposition, and whether he be not Retrograde, Combust or unfortunate or Cadent 


The Resolution of 


from his owne house, or in the figure, or in Opposition or Square aspect to an Infortune, without 
Reception; for then if no such thing be, the matter will be effected and continue, especially if he 
be a Fortune, and the Matrimony will take well, and the people love together. 


Whether the Child conceived is the Sonne of him 
who is reputed his Father. 


Behold the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon, who signifie the Interrogant; then observe the 
Signe of the 11th and his Lord, these signifie the issue in Conception; if these Significators 
behold one another by Trifle or Sextile, with Reception or not, the Conception is legitimate; if 
they behold one another with Square or Opposition, with mutual Reception, and perfect aspect, 
or the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon in the 5th, or if the Lord of the 5th be in the Ascendant, 
without evill aspect of the Infortunes, or if the Fortunes one or both doe behold the Sth house or 
his Lord, the Child conceived is legitimate and true begotten, &c. but if none of these things be, 
but that Saturn, Mars or Mercury behold the 5th house, or Lord thereof, there may be just 
suspicion the Child is conceived in adultery, and the Mother was stuprated. 


Of a woman living from her Husband, whether she 
shall ever live with him againe or not, 
or be received into favour. 


This Question will as well resolve the doubt concerning a Mistris, &c. or Sweetheart. 


If the woman her selfe propound the Question, who is absent from her Husband or Friend, &c. 
Whether she shall be received into favor or not againe? 


Consider herein the Lord of the 7th, which is the Ascendant of the woman in this case, for the 7th 
is ever given to the banished or expulsed party; see if the Lord of the 7th behold the Ascendant 
so partilly, or with so true and good an aspect as himself doth, then without doubt she shall again 
return and come into favour; if the Lord of the 7th behold not the Ascendant, but another Planet 
who is not impedited, yet beholds the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Ascendant, the woman shall be received againe by the mediation of some person who shall 
interpose his friendship with the Husband or Friend, and reconcile them; if none of these things 
be, then have recourse to the Sun, the natural Significator of man, or the Husband, and of Venus, 
the naturals Significatrix of the woman; and if the Sun be above the Earth, and Venus behold the 
Ascendant with a pleasant Sextile or Trine the woman shall return to her house or Sweetheart 
with ease or without any great noyse. 


If the Sun be under the earth, and Venus above, and behold the Ascendant with Sextile or Trine; 
the woman or wife shall be received, but with some importunity and delayes, with much adoe, 
and a great deale of labour, and all her Neighbours shall take notice of it. 


If the Moon be encreasing in light, and in any good aspect to the Ascendant, she shall returne, 
but with much solicitation. 


If the Moon be Decreasing in light, and in her 2nd or last quarter, and not neer the Sun beames, 
but beholding the Ascendant, she will returne with much ease and quickly. 


Behold if Venus be Occidentall, Retrograde and hastening to Combustion, then of her owne 
accord the woman will returne to her Husband, fearing by her absence she shall offend him, and 
she is sorry she ever departed from him; but if she be lately separated from the Sun beames, then 
it repents the man that he gave occasion to his Wife to absent her selfe, or that he abused her; but 
the woman will be angry and malapert, and seems sorry that she shall returne, nor will she much 
respect her Husband after that time. 


CHAP.L. 
Of Servants fled, Beasts strayed, and things lost. 


The Signifier of the thing lost is the Moon, wherefore if you find the Moon applying to the Lord 
of the Ascendant, or to the Lord of the 12th from the Ascendant, or to the Lord of the house 


The Resolution of 


of the Moon, the thing missing shall be found againe; [this principally concerns Cattle strayed] 
but if the Moon apply to none of these, nor abide in the ascendant nor in the 2nd house, the thing 
lost or miscarried shall not be found: if the Lord of the house of the Moon be in the 3rd, or in a 
Sextile to the Ascendant, there is some hope of finding the thing againe, during that aspect with 
the degree ascending: And againe, if he separate himselfe from the Lord of the 12th, 8th, or 6th 
house, and apply unto the degree of the house of Substance, (what aspect soever it be) there is 
hope to find it again; or if the Lord of the house of the Moon do behold Moon; but if you finde 
these Constellations contrary, judge the contrary; if the Moon be fortunate by any of the two 
Fortunes, the thing that is lost chanced into the hands of some trusty body, which keepeth the 
same, and would fame restore it againe; or if that Fortune apply to the ascendant, or behold the 
same, or the Moon behold the ascendant, that faithfull person will restore the same again to the 
owner. 


The place where the thing is that is lost. 


The Signifier of the place where the thing is at time of the Question, is the place of the Moon 
according to the nature of the Signe she is in, for if the Signe be Orientall, it is in the east part; if 
it be Occidentall, it is west, &c. Behold also the place of the Moon in the Figure, for if she be in 
the Ascendant, it is in the east, &c. if the Lord of the house of the Moon be in humane Signes, it 
is in a place where men use to be; if in Signes of small Beasts, as Aries and Capricorn it is where 
such kind of Beasts be: Also, look to the Moon, and see if she be in a fiery Signe, it is where fire 
is; if in a watry Signe, where water is &c. if the Moon be with the Lord of the ascendant in one 
quarter, and there be not between them more then one Signe, the thing lost is in the house of him 
that lost it, or about it; but if there be between more then thirty degrees, and lesse then seventy 
degrees, the thing is in the Towne where the owner is, but if they be not in one quarter, it is then 
farre from the owner. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


How the things or Goods was lost. 


If you will know how in what manner they were lost, behold from whom the Lord of the 
Ascendant did last separate, and if he did separate from Saturn, the cause of the lost thing was 
through forgetfulnesse of the owner, who knowes not where he laid it, or it is forgotten by reason 
of some cold or sicknesse which afflicted the loser, especially if Saturn be Retrograde, if he be 
separated from Jupiter, or in the house of Jupiter, then through fast or abstinency, or ordering of 
Lawes, or by his excesse of care of governing of things, or managing the affaires of the house, or 
else by some trust put upon him that carried it away or mislaid it. [This was Frierly Astrology 
and supposes somewhat lost in an Abbey or Nunnery. ] 


If he be separated from Mars, or in the house of Mars, it was lost through fear, or by some hidden 
passion, provoking the loser to anger, fury, fire, or for emnity, or upon a quarrell. If from the Sun 
or his house, then by the meanes of the King, study of hunting or pastime, or by meanes of the 
master of the Family, or a Gentleman. If from Venus or in her house, then by drinking, Cards or 
Dice, or making merry in an Alehouse or Taverne, or by pastime, or singing and dallying with 
women, &c. If from Mercury by reason of writing, or sending, or dictating of Letters, or going 
on a Message: If from the Moon, or in the house of the Moon, it was lost by too frequent use, and 
shewing the Commodity of thing lost, or the party made it too common, or some Messenger, 
Widdow or Servant lost the same. If the thing lost or missing be a Beast, and not a thing 
moveable, the signification in knowing the place, and the state thereof, is as the said 
significations of things not having life, but that it is needful to seek whether it fled away of it 
selfe, or some other drove him away, whether it liveth or no? and to find the cause of the death of 
it, if it be dead. 


Whether it be stolen or no. 


[This concerns Cattle.] 
If you would know if the Beast fled away by it selfe, or some body took it, behold if you find the 
Lord of the house of the 


The Resolution of 


Moon seperating himselfe from any Planet, say then, that he fled away of his owne accord; but if 
the lord of the house of the Moon be not separated from any Planet, but that another Planet is 
seperating himselfe from him, say that some one or other took it and fled away; but if the lord of 
the house of the Moon be not in any of these two we speak of, behold what you see by the 
positure of the Lord of the 2nd house , and judge by him as you judge by the Lord of the house 
of the Moon, and her separation; and if you find of these two no separation, say that the Beast is 
still in his place, or neer it, and that he fled not away. 


Whether it be alive. 


If you will know whether it be alive or not, behold the Moon and if you find her in application to 
the Lord of the 8th house from her, say it is dead; and if you find no such thing, behold her Lord, 
and if you find him applying to the Lord of the 8th house from the Moon, say likewise that it is 
dead, or it shall dye very shortly; but if in none of these you find application, take the 
signification from the Lord of the 8th house after the same manner. 


Whether the thing missing be stolne, or fled of it selfe. 


[Stolen.] If the Significator of the Theef be in the ascendant, or giveth his vertue to the Moon, or 
the Moon to him, it is stolen, or the Lord of the ascendant to the Significator of the Thiefe, or the 
Signifies of the Theef apply to the Lord of the Ascendant by Square or Opposition, or the Moon 
by Conjunction, Square or Opposition, or the Lord of the house of the Moon, or her Terme, or 
the Lord of the 2nd house, or Part of Fortune or his Lord, or if any Planet be in the Ascendant, 
and give his power to the Signifier of the Theef, or the Signifier to him by Square or Opposition, 
if some of these constellations be not, it is not stolen, except there be an Infortune in the 
Ascendant or 2nd, or the Lord of the house of the Moon, or her Terme be infortunate, or the Part 
of Fortune or his Lord, or the Lord of the Ascendant, or the Lord of the 2nd house be infortunate, 
these signifie losing. 


[Not Stolen.] Or of you find the Lord of the house of the Moon 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


seperating from any Planet, it is fled of its owne accord; if he separate not, but some other from 
him, it is driven away; the like in either by the Lord of the second, if he be in no such state or 
position, the thing abideth still, and it is not stolen. 


For Beasts strayed, or Fugitives, or any thing lost. 


[If found.] The Significator is Moon, wherefore the Moon applying to the Lord of the ascendant, 
or 2nd house, or the Dispositor, it shall be found, otherwise not; Moon in the Ascendant, or her 
Dispositor in a Trifle or Sextile, gives hopes to find it; the Dispositor of the Moon seperating 
from the Lord of the 6th, 8th or 12th, and applying to the Lord of the Ascendant, or to the degree 
of the 2nd house, good hopes also; Moon in aspect to her Dispositor, good; Moon infortunate of 
the Lord of the 6th, 8th, or 12th house, it is in the hands of an ill person that will not depart from 
it, chiefly if the Infortune behold the Ascendant or his Lord. 


[Restored.] Moon beholding Jupiter or Venus, it is in the hands of an honest man that will 
restore it againe; if Jupiter or Venus have any aspect to the ascendant, or Moon apply to the 
ascendant; Moon in the ascendant, it is restored with trouble or paine; or the Lord of the 12th in 
the 12th house, the Lord of the 7th in the 12th, the Fugitive is imprisoned. [Fugitive in restraint. ] 


[The Place.] The place: Moon in the 10th, it is south; in the 7th, west; in the 4th, north; in the 
ascendant, east, &c. the Dispositor of the Moon in a humane Signe, it is in a place where men 
use; in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, a place of Water or Wels; Moon in the last face of Capricorn, it 
is amongst Ships; this must be when things are lost neer a Harbour. 


Moon In Aries, Leo, Sagittarius, in a place of fire; Moon or her Dispositor being in movable 
Signes, it is in a place newly broken up. 


[Strayed.] Moon within 30 degrees of the Lord of the Ascendant the thing is with the Loser, or 
neer him; Moon more then 30 degrees from the Lord of the Ascendant, it is farre off; the 
Dispositor of the Moon seperating from another Planet, it is strayed; another Planet seperating 
from the Dispositor of the Moon, it is stolen. 


The Resolution of 


Moon Or her Dispositor applying to the Lord of the 8th, or 8th house from the Moon, it is dead 
or will dye shortly. 


Moon In the ascendant, or Trine to the Lord of the Ascendant; Moon in Trine to Sun, found. 


The Lord of the 2nd in the 10th or 9th, it is in the house of the 
Querent, or in the power of a familiar friend; Sun in the 
Ascendant (unlesse in Libra or Aquarius) found; the Lord of the 
2nd in the 11th or 12th, farre off. 


Of Beasts or Strayes. 


If the Lord of the 6th be in the 6th, the Beasts be small: if the Lord of the 12th be in the 12th, the 
Beasts be great: if the Lord of the 6th be in the 6th or 12th, they be in a Pound; if the Lord of the 
6th be in fiery Signes, they shal be under fetters and locks; if the Lord of the Ascendant and Lord 
of the hour be one Planet, then it is true they are in Pound; if the Moon be in common Signes, 
they are in rushy grounds; if in an angle, they be in Closes or Grounds, if in a succedant, they be 
within Closes, or about them, on the right hand of the owner; if the Moon be in a cadent house, 
they are in common Fields; if in Cancer, where Dennes and water-beasts be, or some little 
Rivolet, if Aquarius or Pisces in watry or fishing places, or neer Fish-ponds, in the last moity of 
Capricorn, in a place of Ships, or some Wood or Wood-yard. 


[This concerns Goods immovable.] 

Behold the Signe where the Moon is, if in fiery Signes, in a place where fire is, or about a fire, or 
where fire hath formerly been made; the Moon in watry Signes, where water is, or about waters; 
the Moon in ayery Signes, in a place of many windowes, or open places, as Garrets, and such 
like; (this has relation to Beasts strayed.) the Moon in earthly Signes, in an earthly place, where 
houses are made of earth, or neer mud wals or clay; the Moon, or the Lord of the house where 
she is, be in a movable Signe, in a place new peopled, or a house new built, or where are hils, 
and in other places levell grounds; the Moon in a fixed Signe, in a plaine Country or champion; 
the Moon in a common Signe in a place of much water, according to the nature of the place 
where the thing was lost or missing. 

all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Another Judgment 


Common Signs, as Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius or Pisces, do signifie within the house, if it be dead 
things, as rings &c. but if it be quick or living things, or Cattle, it signifieth watry grounds, 
Ditiches, Pits, Rushes, a Market-place; fixed Signes, the Goods are hid, or laid low by the earth, 
or neer it, in wals, or in hollow Trees; movable Signs, high places, Roofs, or Seeling of houses; 
watry Signes, in water, or under the earth, a Pavement, Foundation of houses, &c. 


That the Beasts are lost. 


The Lord of the 6th unfortunate by Saturn or Mars, the Beasts be lost, chiefly if the Lord of the 
6th be cadent, or that the Cattle are drived away or stolen; if any Planet doe separate from the 
Lord of the house of the Moon, it is driven away or sold; if the Planet separate from the Lord of 
the 2nd, idem; if you find none of these, the Beasts are not far off. 


Dead or alive. 


If the Moon apply to the Lord of the 8th, it is dead, or to the 8th house; if the Lord of the house 
of the Moon apply to 8th,idem; or if the Significator of the Beast be in the 8th, in Square to any 
infortunate in the 4th. 


In Pound or not. 


If the Lord of the 6th or 12th be in the 9th or 10th, then are the Beasts with some Justice or 
Officer, as Baily or Constable, or under Lock, or are commanded to be safe kept; for the most 
part Lord of the 12th or 6th in the 12th or 6th, they are kept close. 


That the Cattle shall be found againe. 


If the Lord of the 6th be fortunate by Jupiter or Venus, and if they be found in the 2nd, Sth or 
11th houses, the Beasts will be had again; if the Lord of the Terme of the Moon, or the Lord of 
the Cusp of the 4th house be with the Lord of the Ascendant, idem; or if the Lord of the 6th or 
12th be in Trine of Sun out of angles. 


The Resolution of 


How farre off a thing lost is from the owner. 


The Moon in the same quarter with the Lord of the Ascendant if there be but one Signe between 
them, the lost thing is in the house, or about his house that lost it; if there be more then 30 
degrees unto 70, the thing lost is in the Town, and in the same limits and bounds where the owner 
is; and if it be not within 90 degrees, the thing list is farre distant from the owner; for usually 
when the Significator of the thing lost is in the same Quadrant, or the Moon, the goods are in the 
same Town or Hundred where the Querent liveth. 


Beasts stolen or strayed. 


If the Lord of the house of the Moon, or Lord of the 2nd doe separate from their owne houses (if 
the goods be fixed) it is stolen; if moveable, fled of his owne accord. 


In what place they are. 


If the Lord of the 6th be in an angle, the Beasts be of small growth and in Pounds, Closes or 
houses; in cadent, in a Common, and are going way-ward; in succedant, in some Pasture neer 
hand. 


Which way. 


If the Lord of the 6th be in fiery Signes, east-ward in Woods or where Bushes, Brambles or Ferne 
have been burned; but in angles in fiery Signes, in Closes or Pound, or under Lock. 


The Lord of the 6th in earthly Signes, South on dry lands, or grounds, but if in an angle, in a 
Pound, or close Pound with a thing that earth is about it, viz. a mud wall; if succedant, it is about 
Closes on the right hand of the Querent. 


The Lord of the 6th in an ayery Signe, they are most in plaine ground, if he be in an angle, they 
be in Pound or housed west from the place where they were lost; In succedant, on the right hand 
westward; on cadent, on the left and going away-ward, viz. Straying further from their right 
Owner. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


If the Lord of the 6th be in watry Signes, North, in a low place; if in an angle, in Close-ground, 
northward; in cadent, in the Common on the left hand, where water is, or Medowes, going away- 
ward, or where people water their Cattle. 


In what grounds they be. 


If the Lord of the 6th be in movable Signes, they are in hilly ground. 

If the Lord of the 6th be in fixed Signes, in plaine ground where is new building, or some 
grounds new plowed or turned up. Common Signes, where water is, rushy grounds, ditches. 

If the Lord of the Terme of the Moon be in a fixed Signe they are in a plain ground newly taken 
in, or nigh a new building. 

In movable, in new land, or ground full of hils. 

In common Signes, in a watry place, rushy or a marshy ground, nigh ditches and pits. 


The Cattle shall to Pound. 


If the Moon be in the 12th, they shall be had to Pound or be pounded, what signification soever, 
if the Moon be unfortunate, they shall to Pound; if the Lord of the 12th and principall 
Significator be unfortunate, they shall to pound, or be kept obscurely in some private or close 
place. 


Long in Pound. 


If Saturn be in the 12th, or in the 1st (when the Querent comes to know of you what is become of 
the Cattle) or the Moon in the 12th, any of them unfortunate, than shall they be long in pound; if 
Mars aspect Saturn or the Moon in the 12th, with Conjunction, Square or Opposition, they will 
be killed in Pound, or dye there, or be very neer starving. 


From hence the movable, fixed or common Signes may easily be knowne, when Sheep be stolen, 
whether and where they are killed 


The Resolution of 


or not? if Saturn be in the ascendant, 4th, 8th or 12th, long in pound. 


Escape the Pound. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be in a movable Signe, in the 3rd, 9th or 10th, they shall escape 
Pound; if the Lord of the ascendant be in the 12th, though good, yet sick and ill in Pound. If the 
Lord of the ascendant be in the 8th, it’s probable they dye in pound. 

If the principall Significator of the ascendant be Retrograde they dye in Pound. 

If the Lord of the 6th behold the Lord of the ascendant with Sextile or Trine, they will be had 
againe; if he behold him with Square or Opposition, then they will be stopped: if he behold the 
Moon or the Lord of the house of the Moon, with Sextile or Trine, had againe; with Square or 
Opposition, stopt or staid in some Village or Towne. 


Whether the Fugitive shall be taken. 


Give the ascendant and his Lord and the Sun unto the Querent, and the 7th and his Lord unto the 
Fugitive or thing asked for, and behold what aspect is between them, and so judge; for if the 
Lord of the ascendant apply unto the Lord of the 7th with Conjunction, Sextile or Trine, or that 
the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 7th, it betokeneth the Querent shall recover the things lost or 
Fugitive, gone away. Also, if the Lord of the 7th be in the Ascendant, or apply to the Lord 
thereof, or there be any translation of light betwixt them, it sheweth the same with more facility. 


Of the Moon. 


For Fugitives, have respect to the Moon, being naturall Significatrix of them, by reason of her 
quick motion, for if she be in the Ascendant, or apply to the Lord thereof with a good aspect, or 
that the lord of the 7th or the Moon separate from the Fortunes, and be immediately conjoyned to 
the Infortunes, all 


The Resolution of 


these shew, that the Fugitive shall returne and be recovered, or shall be so hindered, that he shall 
come againe. 


The Moon encreasing in light and number, he shall be long in search; decreasing, soon found, 
and with lesse labour: also, the Moon seperating from the Lord of the 7th, and joyned with the 
Lord of the ascendant, the Fugitive is sorry he went, and will send some to entreat for him; the 
Lord of the 7th Combust, signifies the Fugitive will be taken, will he, nill he; behold in what 
quarter the Moon is, that way the Fugitive draweth, or intendeth to goe. 


Whether he shall be taken. 


The Lord of the 7th joyned to an Infortune in an angle, upon good search, the Fugitive will be 
taken; but if both be not in an angle, he shall be detained or staid by the way, but not imprisoned; 
if the Lord of the ascendant behold that Infortune who afflicts the Fugitive, the Querent shall find 
the Fugitive detained by some one, to whom he ought to give money, or who wil demand mony 
before he so restore the Fugitive unto him: if the Infortune be in the 9th, he shall be staid in his 
journey and taken; the Lord of the 7th with a Planet stationary, in his 1st or 2nd station, in an 
angle or succedant, he knoweth not which way to fly but shall be taken. 


If a Fugitive shall be found, or come againe. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the ascendant, the Fugitive will returne of his owne accord; Moon 
seperating from the Lord of the ascendant, and joyned immediately to the Lord of the 7th house, 
or to the 7th house, one will shortly bring newes of him; the Lord of the 7th combust, or entring 
combustion, the Fugitive shall be found (volens, nolens;) the Moon seperating from the Lord of 
the 7th, and joyned immediately to the ascendant, or Lord thereof, the Fugitive repenteth his 
departure, and will send some to entreat for him; Moon joyned to Infortunes, viz. Saturn, Mars or 
South Node, or to a Planet Retrograde, he shall be found or come againe, and hath endured much 
misery since his departure; the Lord of the 7th beholding and Infortune from the 7th, the 


The Resolution of 


Querent shall find him that is fled with some to whom he must give money before he can have 
him; Moon seperating from Jupiter or Venus, he shall quickly come back againe, or, a thing lost 
shall suddenly be found; Moon aspecting her owne house with Sextile or Trine, the Fugitive 
returneth within three dayes; for according to probability, the Querent shall hear where he is 
within three dayes, if the distance be not too great. 


Distance. 


Behold the Lord of the 7th, and the Lord of the hour, and look how many degrees are between 
them, so many miles he is off from the place he went from. 


The former rule I doe conceive not so perfect as this which followes; see what distance there is 
betwixt the Moon and significator, viz. their aspect and what Signes they are in; give for every 
degree in a movable Signe 17 houses or furlongs, at discretion; in common Signes, give for every 
degree 5 Furlongs or distance of five houses; in fixed Signes, for every degree give one Furlong, 
or one house, &c. having relation to the thing lost, and whether it be in a Town, or in the Fields. 


Of a Woman flying from her Husband. 


The Sun under the earth, Venus Occidentall and Retrograde, she will returne of her owne will; 
Venus Orientall, she cometh, but not willingly; Lord of the ascendant, the Moon, and Lord of the 
7th in Trine, she returneth, with a Square or Opposition without Reception, never; Mars in an 
angle, and giving the Moon strength, and the ascendant movable, they shall be contented to be 
separated for ever. 


Of a Thief and Theft. 


Haly saith, you must know that the ascendant is the Significator of the Querent, the Lord of the 
2nd is Significator of the thing that is stolen or taken away, and the 7th house is the Significator 
of the Thiefe, if there be no Peregrine Planet in an angle or 2nd house; the 10th house is the 
Signifier of the King, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


and the Signe of the 4th the Signifier of the place where the thing is, that is, or was taken away; 
whose proper significations you must know from the Lords of those houses, whereby you may 
know the condition and state of what is missing, and if you find in the ascendant a Planet 
peregrine, put him as the Significator of the Thiefe, and especially if he be Lord of the 7th house; 
but if no Planet be in the Ascendant, look if there be any in the other angles, and give him to be 
Signifies of the Thief. [This shall be more copiously handled in some Chapter following. A most 
certaine rule. | 


Of the SIGNIFICATOR of the Thiefe. 


[A Planet is then peregrine when he is neither in his House, Triplicity, Terme, Exaltation or Face. 
I rather and more assuredly prefer the Lord of the 7th, as more rational and consentanious to 
reason. | 

The Lord of the 7th commonly signifies the Thief, but especially if he be peregrine in the 
ascendant, or in any other angle; but if he be not so, then behold if any other Planet be peregrine 
in any of the angles, call him the Thief; if none be peregrine in any of the angles, take the Lord of 
the Hour, and call him the Thief, and if it happen that the Lord of the Hour be Lord of the 7th, 
then it is more radicall; if the Lord of the 7th be in the ascendant, the Querent is Thief; this will 
hold where just suspition is made of the Querent’s fidelity, or most cause above all others, whose 
complexion and condition is according to the Planet, Lord of the 7th, and Signe thereof. 


The SIGNIFICATOR of the thing stolen. 


[This rule is vulgar, and not of any credit.] 

The Significator of the thing stolen is the Lord of the Term the Moon is in; when thou hast found 
the Significator of the Thief, and understandest the nature of his disposition by the significant 
Planet and his aspects, know that the ascendant is Signifier of the Question, or Demandant, and if 
thou see the Lord of the ascendant draw towards the Lord of the 7th, or to the Lord of the houre, 
or be in the 7th, it signifieth that the Thief shall be taken anon after, or it gives hopes of 
discovery of the thing lost. 


Of THEFTS. 


The Ist house, which is the ascendant, is for the Querent, and 


The Resolution of 


his Lord for him that hath lost the Goods, and signifieth the place from whence the Goods was 
taken; the 7th house and his Lord, and the peregrine Planet in an angle, and the Lord of the hour, 
signifieth the Thief, or party that took away the Goods. [This is a very good judgment, and may 
well be trusted. ] 


The 2nd house and the Lord of the 2nd house and the Moon, shall signifie the Goods or thing 
that is lost, stolen or mist; the 4th house and his Lord shall signifie the place where it is laid, put 
or done, or conveyed unto, and is in at that instant of time. 


The aspects of the Sun and Moon, of the Lord of the ascendant, of the Lord of the 2nd house, and 
of the Lord of the house of the Moon, to the Lord of the ascendant, and their application and 
aspects one to another, shall tell and shew whether the Goods shall be found and had againe or 
not: If the Lord of the 2nd and the Moon be in the 7th, in the Signe if the 7th, and the Lord of 
the 7th house behold them both by Trine or Sextile aspect (though long out, viz. if the aspect be 
by many degrees distance) then is the Goods taken away by some body. viz. they are not simply 
lost: if the Moon be Lady of the 2nd and in the house of the Lord of the hour, going to 
Conjunction of the Lord of the 7th house, then hath the party lost the thing or Goods in some 
place where he was, and hath forgot it, and it is neither lost or stolen, but carelesly mislaid. 


If the Moon be Lady of the ascendant, and in the 4th, and the Lord of the 2nd in the 7th, or in the 
sign of the 8th house, in Opposition to the 2nd house, at a Sextile or Trine to the Moon, the thing 
is not stolen, but taken away in jest. If the Moon be Lady of the ascendant, and in the ascendant, 
not farre remote, and the Sun Lord of the 2nd in the 10th with the Lord of the 7th house, and the 
Lord of the 7th oppresse the Moon with a Square, then is the Goods stolen and taken away; if the 
Moon be in the 3rd, opprest with the Lord of the 7th house by his Square aspect, and Lord of the 
2nd also being Lord of the ascendant, and in the 7th, in the Signe of the 7th, then it is stolen, but 
first it was taken in jest, and it will be hard to get it againe, except the Sun and Moon behold the 
ascendant. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


If Moon be in the 7th in the Signe of the Lord of the hour, the Lord of the hour being Lord of the 
7th, then is the Goods not stolen or taken away, but overlooked and mistaken. If Moon be in the 
5th house and in Capricorn, and be Lady of the hour, and Venus Lady of the 2nd in the 10th, in 
the Signe of the 10th, and Moon in Opposition to the Lord of the 7th, then hath the party lost the 
Goods as he went by the way, or was in some place where he left them: If the Moon be Lady of 
the hour, in Cancer, in the 8th, and Lord of the 2nd in the 5th, and neither of them behold the 
Lord of the 7th, but the Lord of the 7th be in the 7th, then is the Goods taken away in jest by the 
Master of the house, and he will deny it: If the Moon be Lady of the hour in the 4th, in 
Opposition to the Lord of the 7th, and the Lord of the 2nd in the 12th, in a Sextile to the Lord of 
the 7th, then hath somebody taken the things away in jest: If Moon be in the Signe of the Lord of 
the 7th, and not beholding the Lord of the 7th, but Moon in the 12th, and Lord of the 2nd in the 
6th, then is the Goods taken away in jest, if the Lord of the 2nd did last separate from the Lord of 
the house of the Moon, then the Goods is stolen in jest, but will scant be had again. If the Moon 
doe separate from the Lord of the 2nd by Square, the Goods is taken where she is, then it is 
stolen: If the Lord of the ascendant doe separate from Jupiter, or from the Lord of the 2nd house, 
then did the Querent lay it downe and forget it, and so it was lost: but when the Lord of the 
Ascendant and Lord of the 2nd doe separate from Jupiter, it is the surer: and sometimes it fals 
out, that the Moon is Lady of the ascendant, and separates from Jupiter, and doth apply unto the 
Lord of the 2nd house, which did also last separate from Jupiter, and sometimes the Lord of the 
Ascendant, as Sun is also Lord of the 2nd, and doth separate from Jupiter, yet if it be so, it giveth 
all one judgment as aforesaid: If the Lord of the 2nd or Jupiter doe separate from the Lord of the 
ascendant, then did the party lose the Goods by the way as he went, or in some secret place 
where he was, or else it tumbled out of his pocket privily into some secret place where it is not 
stolen or found: But if there be none of these separations 


The Resolution of 


aforesaid, then see if the peregrine Planet or Lord of the 7th or Mercury, who is also for the 
Thief, doe apply to Jupiter, or the Lord of the 2nd; if they doe, then is the Goods absolutely 
stolen, and the Thief came with intent for to steale: If the Lord of the 2nd or Jupiter doe apply 
unto the peregrine Planet, or to the Lord of the 7th, or to Mercury, who is for the Thief, then the 
Goods or the thing lost did offer it selfe to the Thiefe, or he came easily by them without trouble; 
for he that stole them, came not with intent for to have stolen it, but seeing the thing did lye so 
open, and so carelesly, he took it and carried it away. If the Moon be Lady of the ascendant, and 
also lady of the 2nd, and be in Taurus, and apply by Conjunction to the Sun, within one degree, 
and Sun be the Lord of the 3rd house, and Mars be the peregrine Planet, and in the 10th, and 
Mercury apply to Mars, none of the abovesaid separations or applications impediting, or the Lord 
of the 7th in the 3rd, then the Querent did lose the thing by the way as he went, and it is not 
stolen from him. 


Whether it be stolen or no. 


For this, behold if the Signifier of the Thiefe be in the ascendant, or give his vertue to the Moon 
or the Moon to him, it is stolen; if the Lord of the ascendant give his vertue to the Signifier of the 
Thiefe, it is stolen; if the Signifier behold the Lord of the ascendant by Square or Opposition, or 
the Moon by Conjunction, Square or Opposition, or the Lord of the house of the Moon, or the 
Lord of the Terme of the Moon, or the Lord of the 2nd house, or the Part of Fortune or his Lord, 
the thing is stolen. 


And if any Planet be in the ascendant, and give his power to the Signifier of the Thiefe, or the 
Significator to him by Square or Opposition, it is stolen, except there be an Infortune in the 
ascendant or 2nd house, or the Lord of the house of the Moon, or of the Terme of the Moon is 
unfortunate, or the Part of Fortune or his Lord be unfortunate, or the Lord of the ascendant, or 
the Lord of the 2nd house be infortunate, all these signifie losse of losing. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


That the Goods are stolen. 


If any Planet be in the ascendant peregrine, it is stolen; or the peregrine Planet give vertue to the 
Moon, or the Moon to him, it is stolen; the Lord of the ascendant peregrine, it is stolen; if the 
Thiefe be peregrine, that is, if he have no dignities where he is, it is stolen; if the Significator be 
with the Lord of the ascendant or in Square or Opposition to the Lord of the ascendant, it is 
stolen. 


If any Planet doe separate from the Lord of the house of the Moon, it is stolen; if any Planet have 
respect to the Lord of the Terme of the Moon, with Conjunction, Square or Opposition, it is 
stolen: if any Planet be separate from the Lord of the house of Substance, it is taken away: if the 
Thiefe have respect unto the Lord of the house of the Moon, with Conjunction, Square or 
Opposition, it is taken away. 


Not stolen. 


If neither the Lord of the house of the Moon or Lord of the 2nd separate not themselves from one 
another, or any other Planet from them, then what you look for is in his owne place; if the Moon 
give vertue to Saturn or Mars, or to any Planet in cadent houses, or to the Lord of the 8th, not 
stole, but missing, or else negligently throwne aside. 


It will be (or is intended to be stolen.) 
If the Moon be Lady of the 7th, and give her vertue to a Planet in the 2nd, or in the 11th or 5th, 
having her selfe neither Sextile or Trine to the Cusps of the houses, or if any Planet in the 7th 
give vertue to a Planet in the 2nd, 5th or 11th, and have no Sextile or Trifle to the Planet in the 
7th, it will be, or if the Lord of the 10th be in Conjunction, Square or Opposition with the Thiefe, 
it will be stolen. 


It is Lost of Stolen. 


If a Planet doe separate himselfe from the lord of the house of 


The Resolution of 


the Moon, or from the Lord of the 2nd, then it is taken away with hands and stolen: If the Moon 
be Lady of the 7th, and give vertue to the Lord of the ascendant, it is stolen: if the Lord of the 
ascendant give vertue to the Moon in the 7th, it is stolen. 


If any Planet in the ascendant give vertue to the Signifier of the Thiefe, it is stolen, or the Thief 
to the Lord of the ascendant, its stolen, but the Thief gives so much of the Goods to the owner 
againe, according to the vertue or light that the Thief giveth to the Lord of the ascendant; if any 
Planet in the ascendant be peregrine, it is stolen, and the Thief shall escape. 


If the peregrine Planet give vertue to the Moon, or the Moon to him, if the Thief aspect the Moon 
with Conjunction, Square or Opposition, or aspect the Lord of the Terme of the Moon, it is 
stolen. 


If the Moon give vertue to Saturn or Mars, or if she give vertue to any Planet in a cadent house, 
or if the Moon give vertue to the Lord of the 8th, and he in a movable Signe, the things are 
stolen, but in fixed Signes, taken away. 


[not stolen] If the Lord of the house of the Moon separate from any Planet, or the Lord of the 
2nd doe separate from any Planet, stolen. 


If the Lord of the house of the Moon or 2nd be in his owne house, and have vertue of Saturn or 
Mars, gone away by it selfe, and not stolen. 


Of the age of the Thief: 


The age is taken from the Planet that is Significator of the Thiefe, if he be Orientall, he is young; 
in the midst of his Orientality, then of middle age; if he be in the end of his Orientallity, he is old, 
saith Haly. 


To judge by the distance of the Planets from the Sun, for by the Sun the Planets are Orientall and 
Occidentall, by which the signification of age is taken, after Haly, and other Writers. 


If together with this, you consider in what degrees of the Signe the Significator is in, you shall 
doe better, for a Planet Orientall and in a few degrees, denotes youth, or younger; in more 
degrees, more age; frame the age according to an exact mixture. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


If Saturn, Jupiter or Mars be significators, then behold the distance of them from the Sun; from 
their Conjunction with the Sun to the Square aspect, signifieth the age of 18 yeers, and the neerer 
the Sun the lesser in age, and from the Square to the Opposition signifieth the age of 36. from the 
Opposition to the next Square signifies the age of 45. from that last Square to the Conjunction 
signifieth the age of 72. and so to the end of life. 


Guido Bonatus saith, the Sun being significator, and being between the ascendant and Mid- 
heaven or 10th house (which is all one) signifieth the thiefe to be young, and so increasing till he 
come to the angle of the earth. 


And if Venus or Mercury be significators, the age is taken by their distance or elongation from 
the Sun, from their Conjunction with the Sun, being direct to the mid-way of their Conjunction in 
their Retrogradation, signifies the age of the thiefe to be about 18. and the neerer the Sun the 
younger, and from the mid-way to their Conjunction in their Retrogradation, signifieth the age of 
36. or neer that age, the neerer to the Conjunction the elder, and from the Conjunction in the 
Retrogradation, to the mid-way of their Conjunction in direction, signifieth the age of 72. and so 
to the end of life; and if the Moon be signifier judge as by Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, as before is 
said. 


The same Guido saith, Venus signifieth the thiefe to be young, a woman or a Maid, Mercury of 
lesse age then Venus, Mars signifieth full age, or in prime of his youth, Jupiter more of yeers then 
Mars, and Saturn signifieth old age or decrepit, or well in yeers, the Sun signifieth as before said; 
the Moon being significatrix in the beginning of the Moneth to the first quarter, signifieth to be 
young; and if she be neer to the full Moon, it signifieth the middle age or perfect man; and if she 
be in the end of the Moneth, it signifieth the Thiefe to be aged, or of greater yeers. 


The age of the Thiefe. 


If the Moon increases, he is young; if decrease he is old; if the significator be in the house of 
Saturn, or aspected by him, or in the last degree of a Signe, it signifies old age; Saturn the same; 
Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury from the Ascendant unto the 10th, signifie young yeers, especially if 
they be in the beginning of 


The Resolution of 


Signes: from the 10th to the 7th, middle yeers; if the Significator be a superiour Planet and 
direct, then he is of good yeers, if Retrograde elder or very old, and so judge of inferior Planets; 
for if they be Retrograde or joyned to Planets Retrograde, it augmenteth the age: thus is you 
mingle your signification, you may judge better. The Sun between the Ascendant and mid heaven 
argueth a childe, between the Meridian and Occident, accuseth a young Man, between the 
Occident and Septentrionall angle, a Man growne; and from the Septentrionall to Orientall, 
accuseth a very old Man; Lord of the ascendant in the East quarter, or Moon in the Ascendant, a 
young Man; Mercury alwayes signifies a Childe or a young Man, especially being in the 
Ascendant and Orientall: any Planet, except Saturn, Signifieth young Man; or if the signifier be 
joyned to Venus, Moon increasing in light, or in the first ten degrees or middle of the Signe, or 
the significator in the beginning of the Orientall quarter, signifies a Childe, or a young Man, or a 
Woman, &c. 


Whether the Thiefe be a Man or Woman. 


[behold the signe of the 7th and the Lord of the 7th] 

Behold the Signe ascending and the Lord of the houre; if both be Masculine, the Thiefe is 
Masculine; and if the Lord of the houre and Ascendant be both Feminine, the Thiefe is Feminine; 
if the Signe Ascending be Masculine , and the Lord of the houre Feminine, it is both Masculine 
and Feminine, viz. there were two Theeves, both a Man and a Woman. 


Also the Significator Masculine and Moon in a Masculine Sign, signifieth a Man-kinde, & e 
contra. If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the houre be both in the Ascendant in 


Masculine Signes, it is a Man; in Feminine Signes, a Woman. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the houre be the one in a Masculine, and the other in 
a Feminine Sign, both a Man and a Woman had a hand in the Theft. 


The Angles of the Figure Masculine, a Man; Feminine a Woman. 


Venus Significatrix aspecting Mars with Square, notes impediment in hearing, principally in the 
left eare. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Venus, Mercury, Moon noteth Woman, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and Sun Men; respecting the Signe 
and quarter wherein they be. 


If one Thiefe or more. 


Behold the Significator of the Thiefe; if he be in a fixed Signe, and of direct Ascensions, or a 
Signe of few Children, or of few shapes and likenesse; it signifies to be one and no more. If the 
Signe be of two bodies, viz. a common or bycorporeall Signe, it signifies more then one, and 
more likely if there be in the Signe many Planets peregrine: also when the Sun and Moon behold 
themselves by a Square in the Angles, it signifies more then one: 

Signes that signifie many Children are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces; few Children are Aries, 
Taurus, Libra, Sagittartus, Capricorn and Aquarius. Divers shapes or formes, Gemini, Cancer, 
Sagittarius, Aquarius: barren Signes are Gemini, Leo and Virgo; Signes of direct Ascensions 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and Sagittarius; Signes of oblique Ascensions are Capricorn, 
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini. If the Moon in the houre of the Question be in the 
Angle of the Earth, in a common Sign, there is more then one; if she be in any of the other 
Angles, in a fixed Sign, there is but one Thiefe. Looke how many Planets are with the Thieves 
significator, so many Theeves; the Moon in a common Signe more then one. Lord of the 
Ascendant in a Male Signe, and Lord of the houre in a Female, Man and Woman (as aforesaid;) 
looke to which the Moon doth agree, viz. to whom she applies, that person is the principall actor; 
the Angles moveable especially the 1st and 7th, or the Significator being in Cancer, Scorpio or 
Pisces, more then one. The Sign wherein the Significator of the Thiefe is in, if it be immoveable, 
or a double bodied Sign, more then one. Both the Luminaries beholding one another from 
Angles, more then one; Moon in the Ascendant, and it a double bodied Signe, doth demonstrate 
there were more Thieves then one. 


Of the Cloathes of the Thiefe. 


You must know the colour of the Cloathing by the Planets, Signs and Degrees, and the House the 
Significator is in; and after the mixture the one with the other, accordingly judge the colour of 


The Resolution of 


their Cloathes. If there be signification of many Theeves, judge them by the Lord of the triplicity 
the significators are in. The Significators of the Colours of the Planets after Alcabitius are these, 
Saturn Blacke, Jupiter Green, Spotted, or Ashy, or such like; Mars Red; Sun Tawny or Saffron, I 
rather conceive an high Sandy colour. The Colours by mixing the Planets one with another are 
these; Saturn and Jupiter, a darke Greene, or deepe spotted with Blacke; Saturn and Mars a darke 
Tawney, Saturn and Sun a Blacke—yellow and shining, Saturn and Venus a White gray, Saturn 
and Mercury a Black Black or Blewish, Saturn and Moon a deepe Tawney, or deep Gray or 
Russet. Jupiter and Mars a Tawney, somewhat light spotted, Jupiter and Sun much after the 
mixture of the Sunne and Mars but more shining, Jupiter and Venus a Greenish-gray, Jupiter 
and Mercury a Spotted Green, Jupiter and Moon a somewhat high Greene. Mars and Sun a deepe 
Red shining, Mars and Venus a light Red or Crimson, Mars and Mercury a Red or a red Tawney, 
Mars and the Moon a Tawney or light Red. 


[They who are conversant in judging many Theft might much perfect this judgment; I have 
known it hold true very many times; my greater imployments keeps me from further 
observations. | 


You must mix the colour of the Signifier with the colour of the House he is in, and thereafter 
judge the colour of their Cloathes; or judge the Colour by the Signes and the Degrees the 
Signifier is in; as if he be in the Signe, or House, or Terme of Saturn, judge after Saturn as 
before; and if he be in the House of Saturn and Terme of Jupiter, judge after the mixture of 
Saturn and Jupiter, and so of all other as before. 


For Names. 
Jupiter, Sun and Mars in Angles signifie short Names and of few Sylables, and being neer the 
Mid-heaven doe begin with A or E: Saturn or Venus Significator, the Name is of more Syllables, 
as Richard or William, for the most part if the Querents Names be short, so is also the Quesited. 


Names of Theeves or Men, as Astrologers write. 


To know the Names by the Lord of the 7th house; or the Planet in the 7th House, or the Planet 
joyned with them, as followeth: 





MENS NAMES 

Principall Planet Cojoyned Mens 
Signifier Joyned Names 
Mercury Mars Matthew 
Moon Mercury Simon 
Sun Jupiter Laurence 
Mercury Sun Clement 
Mercury Saturn Edmund 
Jupiter Sun John 
Saturn Venus William 
Mars Sun Robert 
Mars Sun Peter 
Mars Anthony 
Sun Mercury Benjamin 
Jupiter Saturn Thomas 
Sun Roger 
Sun Phillip 
Saturn Sun George 
Sun Saturn Andrew 
Moon Sun Henry 
Moon Saturn Nicholas 
Jupiter Sun Richard 
Sun James 
Sun Stephen 

WOMENS NAMES 
Mars Mercury Katherine 
Mercury Mars Sun Christian 
Saturn Moon Venus Joane 
Venus Saturn Isabel 
Saturn Sun Elizabeth 
Saturn Sun Julian 
Moon Mars Sun Mary 
Moon Venus Ellin 
Venus Mercury Agnes 
Sun Mercury Margaret 
Sun Venus Alice 
Sun Mercury Edith 
Sun Venus Maud 
Sun Jupiter Lucy 
Sun Anne 
Jupiter Rachel 
Moon Nell, Ellenor 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Some moderne Professors, have endeavoured to give aprobable conjecture what Christian name 
the Thiefe is of, or party enquired after, whether man or woman. First, they consider if the Planet 
who is principall Significator of the party enquired of, whether he be angular or no, and then 
whether he be in aspect (it matters not what aspect, good or ill) with any Planet or Planets: if he 
be in no aspect, then in whose Dignities he is, and from hence they make their mixture; for 
example; let us admit Mercury to be Lord of the 7th, and Significator of a Maids Lover. 


The Resolution of 


and he in aspect, or in the dignities of Mars, I shall then have recourse on the Table before, and 
there I find in the first line over against Mercury and Mars Matthew, I shall then say the man’s 
name is Matthew, or of a name equivalent in length, or same number of letters: for my part I 
never use this way, nor yet have much credited it; yet I beleeve, were it well practiced we might 
find out very pretty conclusions, and goe neer to find the very name, or somewhat neer it. 


Whether the Thief be out of the house or not. 


If both the Lights behold the ascendant, or he be in their owne houses, the Thief is one of the 
Family, the Lord of the 7th in the ascendant, idem; the Lord of the 6th in the 2nd, it is a Servant; 
if either of the Luminaries behold the ascendant, it is no stranger; Sun opposite to the ascendant, 
it is an overthwart Neighbour; the Lord of the 7th beholding the ascendant with a friendly aspect, 
idem. 


A Stranger or Familiar. 


Sun and Moon beholding the ascendant or the Lord of the ascendant in the Ist, or joyned to the 
Lord of the 7th, it is one of the house, or one that frequents the house; the Luminaries in their 
proper houses, or in the house of the Lord of the ascendant, the same; in the Triplicity of the 
Lord of the ascendant, a Neighbor; in the Terms of him, a familiar; Moon in the 9th in 
Conjunction, Square or Opposition to Saturn or Mars, brings back the Thief; without fail if they 
be Retrograde. 


Another. 


If the Sun and Moon aspect the Lord of the ascendant, and not the ascendant, the Thief is 
knowne to the owner; the Significator of the Thiefe strong in the ascendant, noteth a Brother or 
Kinsman; Zael, Lord of the 7th in the 9th from his owne house, it is a Stranger; Sun and Moon 
beholding each other, a Kinsman; the Lord of the ascendant in the 3rd or 4th, accuseth thine 
owne household-Servant; this I have oft proved true by experience. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Ruled by the Lord of the Seventh house. 


The Lord of the 7th in the ascendant or 4th, noteth one of the house, or of the household, or 
frequenting the house, and is in the City or Towne, and is one whom the Querent least 
mistrusteth, and one which will hardly confesse the fact. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 2nd, noteth one of the household, or an acquaintance (if is be in a 
Masculine Signe,) but if it be in a Feminine Signe, it is his Wife, perhaps a Sweetheart or Mayd 
of the house, and is within the power of the Loser, or some of his house, and may be recovered 
by money. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 3rd, one of the Kindred, Brother, Sisters, Cozens, or his onely Fellow 
by way of service, or some Neighbour often in his sight, or his Disciple, Messenger or Servant, 
&e. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 4th, it is his Father, or some old Body, or of his Fathers Kin, or one 
dwelling in the Heritage or house of his Father, and the Thiefe hath given it to his Wife, or the 
Woman to her Husband, or it is the good man or good Wife of the house, or else he is a Tiller or 
Labourer of the Land for the Querent, 


The Lord of the 7th in the Sth, the Sonne or Daughter of him, or the Sonne or Daughter of his 
Cozen or Nephew, (if the Sign be a masculine) or of the household of his Father, or else his very 
Friend. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 6th, A Servant, a Disciple or Labourer to the Querent, or one 
conversant with some Churchman, a Brother or Sister of the Father, a sick body or unsteadfast, 
or grieved person. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 7th, his Wife or Lady, or an Harlot, or a woman that useth to be 
suspected for such matters, or a Buyer or Seller in Markets; if it be a feminine Signe, the Taker is 
an utter enemy to the Loser, by some cause formerly happened between them, and dwels 
somewhat far from him, and the things are in his custody still, and hard to be recovered. [This 
must be warily understood. | 


The Lord of the 7th in the 8th, a Stranger, yet seemeth to be one 


The Resolution of 


of the household, or one of his open enemies, or of his neer Kinswoman, for some cause of 
offence done, or some evill disposed person (and of the Livery of the Man) and he useth to come 
to his House, and either is kept by him, or else doth some servile acts, as a Butcher or Labourer 
doth, otherwhiles to kill Cattell, and it seemeth the thing lost will not be had againe but by either 
faire words, or dread of death, or by reason of some threats, or else the thing is lost by some Man 
absent, the which is not now had in the minde at this time, but seems to be quite forgotten. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 9th, an honest person, a Clarke, or a Church-man, and the Thiefe is out 
of the way or Country, a Disciple, or Governour to some Master of some priviledged Place, or a 
poore vagrant person, hard to be recovered but by some religious person as aforesaid. 


[I ever finde it to signifie one lodging in the House, when the thing was lost, or using the House. | 
The Lord of the 7th in the 10th, a Lord, or Master, or Governour in the Kings House, or of his 
Household; or some Lady or Gentlewoman, if the Figure be Feminine, & e contra; or some 
crafts-Master; usually its some person that lives handsomely, and is not necessitated to this 
course of life. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 11th, a Friend or one knowne by some service done; or of the 
household of some man of the Church, or Neighbour, or Servant in the place where the Querent 
hath some Lordship, and is put in trust, or is of the Household of the Querent his Mother, and by 
such a one or his meanes to be recovered againe. 


The Lord of the 7th in the 12th, a Stranger, envious a false person, and inthralled, incumbered or 
oppressed with poverty, and hath no riches; wherefore he hath visited many Regions, as some 
Enemy or Beggar doth, and he joyneth in it; judge his quality by the Signe and Place, and 
commix all these with the other testimonies of the Signes and Planets. 


Whether the Thiefe be in the Towne or no. 


Behold the Significator of the Thiefe, if thou find him in the end of the Signe direct, or 
seperating from Combustion, or applying to a Planet in the 3rd or 9th House; say, he is gone or 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


going out of the Towne, for the removing of the Significator out of one Signe into another, 
denoteth change of Lodging or removing; if it be a superiour Planet, the rule is infallible. 


If the Lord of the ascendant and the Moon be not in one quarter but above 90 degrees asunder, it 
noteth departure, or a great distance betwixt the Goods and the Owner; but if they be in angles, 
and applying to Planets in angles, it noteth no farre distance, especially if the Moon and the Lord 
of the ascendant be in one quarter. 


Distance betwixt the Owner and the Thief. 


[These judgments best agree from the Country.| 

If the Thief, viz. his Significator, be in a fixed Signe, account for every house betwixt the Lord of 
the ascendant and him, three miles; in common Signes, every house betwixt the ascendant and 
Thief, one mile; in movable Signes, for every house betwixt the ascendant and the Thiefe, 
account that so many houses on the earth are betwixt the Loser and the Thiefe. 


If the Signe ascending be a fixed Signe, for every house give three miles; if a common Signe, 
then for every house give one mile; if a movable Signe, for every house reckon one halfe mile. 


If his Significator be in an angle, he is still in the Towne; in a succedant, not far off, in a cadent 
he is far gone. 


Where the Thief is. 


[These are still for the Country.] 
Moon in an angle, at home; succedant, about home; if in cadent, far from home, 


The Significator of the Thief in an Angle, in a house; Moon in an angle, in his owne house; in a 
succedant, he is in Closes; Moon in a succedant, in his owne Closes, 


The Significator of the Thiefe in a cadent house, he is in a Common; Moon in a cadent, in his 
owne Common, or that which belongs to the Towne he lives in. 


If the Signifier of the Thief be within thirty degrees of the Lord of the ascendant, then is the 
Thiefe neer him that lost the 


The Resolution of 


Goods; if within seventy degrees, within the Towne or Parish of him that lost the Goods, the 
more degrees betwixt them, the farther off they are from each other. 


If the Significator be in a Square aspect to the Lord of the ascendant, he is out of the Towne; if 
the Lord of the 7th be strong, & in an angle, the Thief is not yet gone out of the Town or Parish 
where the Theft was acted; if he be found weak in an angle, he is gone, or departing. 


Another. 


[It sometimes holds true, the Lord of the 7th in the ascendant, the Thiefe brings the Goods home 
willingly. ] 

If the Lord of the 7th be in the ascendant, tell the Querent the Thiefe will be at home (before 
him) or before he get home, probatum est. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the 7th, he is hid at home and dare not be seen. 

If the Lord of the 6th be in the Ist, or 2nd with any of their Lords, the Thief is of the house of the 
Querent. 

If the Lord of the ascendant and the Significator of the Thief be together, the Thief is with the 
Querent, probatum est; the very truth us, he cannot be far from him. 


Towards what part the Thief is gone. 


[These things shal be more fully explicated in the succeding sheet, If you would know to what 
part he is fled, after he is gone out of Towne, behold the Planet that signifies his going out of 
Towne, and in what Sign he is; and if he be in a fiery Sign, say he is in the east part of the Towne 
or Country; if he be in a watry Signe, he is in the North; if in an Ayery Aign, he is in the west; if 
in an earthly Signe, he is in the south: Behold also in what quarter of Heaven he is in, and judge 
accordingly; if the signifier be in the west, he is in the west; the east part os from the Mid-heaven 
to the ascendant, &c. mix the signification of the Signe with the signification of the quarter, and 
thereafter judge, preferring the Signe before the quarter, onely making use of the quarter to 
ballance your judgment when other testimonies are equall. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Which way the Thief is gone. 


Behold the significant Planet, in what Signe he is, and also the quarter, and accordingly judge; 
others judge by the place of the Moon; others behold the Lord of the 7th, and the Lord of the 
hour, what Signe and quarter they are in, and if they agree, then they judge thereafter; others 
regard the Significator to whom he doth apply, or render his power; others by the Lord of the 4th, 
I alwayes judge by the strongest, either of the Significator or the Moon. 


[The peculiar quarter of heaven every Signe naturally signifies doth follow hereafter. ] 

If the Significator of the Thief be in a fiery Sign, he went east; earthly, south; ayery, west; watry, 
north; see what angle Moon is in, there is the Thief; in no angle, look for the Lord of the house of 
the Moon, to that part he went. 


See what Signe the Lord of the 7th is in; if in Aries, eastward; in Taurus, in the South against the 
east; and so of the rest, 


Of the house of the Thiefe, and the mark thereof. 


If you will know the quality of the house the thing lost is in, and the Signe and token thereof, and 
in what place the thing is, behold the Signe the Significator of the Thief is in, and in what part of 
heaven he is, and say in that part of the Towne the thing is; if it be in the ascendant, it is in the 
point of the east; in the 7th, just in the west; in the 4th, just in the north; in the 10th, it is south; 
and if it be between these angles, judge accordingly; as south-west or north-west; give the place 
of the Sun to be the house the Thief is in, and the place of the Moon to be the door of the house; 
if the Sun be in an Orientall Signe, the house is in the east part from the Master, or from him that 
lost the Goods. 


The Door of the house. 


To know in what part of the house the Door is, behold the place the Moon is in, whether in the 
angles, succedants or cadents, and judge as it is said in the parts of the house, the which part is 


The Resolution of 


taken of or from the Signe the Moon is in one way; if the Moon be in a fixed Signe, say the 
house hath but one door; in a movable Signe, say the door is high above the earth, and it may be 
there is one other little one; and if Saturn have any aspect to that Signe, the door hath been 
broken and after mended againe, or else it is black or very old. 


[Or is well bard with Iron.] 

If Mars have any aspect thereunto, the gate or door shall have some token of burning or fire; and 
if Saturn and Mars have a friendly aspect to the same Signe, the gate is Iron, or most part of it, or 
a good strong one; and if the Moon have small light, the house hath no door opening to the high- 
way, but opens on the back part of the house. 


Tokens of the Thiefe house. 


If the Moon be in Square, Conjunction, or Opposition to Mars, the door is burned with iron, fire 
or candle, or hath been cut with some iron instrument; if the Moon be in Trine or Sextile to Mars, 
say the door of the Thiefs house is mended with iron; if the Moon be but newly encreased in 
light, his gate or door is part under the earth, or under a Bank-side, or they goe downe by a step, 
Moon in a fixed or movable Signe, he hath but one door outwardly, in common Signs more then 
one. 


[Or men goe down by steps,] 

Moon in a fixed Signe, the gate is under the earth, viz. if in Taurus, or the house standeth on the 
Bank-side, if in Aquarius; Moon in movable Signs, the gate or door is above the earth, and a step 
to go up in to it (probatumn est.) or one ascends somewhat in going into the house. 


Moon Infortunate, the gate is broken, and note what part of heaven Moon is in, that part of the 
house the door standeth in; if Saturn aspect the Moon with Conjunction, Square or Opposition, 
the door or gate is broken downe, old or black; if with Sextile or Trine, the door is mended 
againe. 


Of the house where the Thiefe remaineth or dwelleth. 


Behold the Signe wherein the Signifier is in, and in what part of 


The Resolution of 


Behold the Lord of the terme wherein the Significator of the Thiefe is, and by him judge the 
estate of the Thiefe; if an infortunate Planet be in a fortunate terme, he was of a wilde stocke, and 
now is in good state: If a fortune be in the terme of an infortune, say the contrary. 


If he carried all with him, 


Behold the Lord of the 7th and 8th, if the Lord of the 7th be in an Angle, he was willing to have 
carried all away, but could not; if in a succedent, and the Lord of the 8th with him strong, he had 
all; if both the Lord of the 7th and 8th be in cadent Houses, he neither carried it away or had it, 


The distance of the thing from the Owner. 


[These rules are much followed by those that practice in the Country.] 

Behold how many Degrees are between the Significator and the Moon; and whether the Signes 
be fixed, movable or common; in fixed Signes account for every Degree a Mile; in common 
Signes so many tenths of Miles; in Movable Signes so many Rods. How many Degrees betwixt 
the Lord of the 7th and the Lord of the houre, so many thousand Paces betwixt the Querent and 
the Fugitive. 


Looke what distance is betwixt the Ascendant and his Lord, such is the distance betwixt the place 
where the thing was lost and the thing it selfe. 


Looke how many Degrees the Signifier is in his Signe, and so many Miles are the Cattle from the 
place where they went, and in that quarter or coast where the Lord of the 4th is. 


How farre the thing is from the Querent. 


Behold the Lord of the Ascendant and the Ascendant, and see how many Signes and Degrees are 
betwixt the Lord of the Ascendant and the Ascendant; and if the Lord of the Ascendant be in a 
fixed Signe, then give for every Signe (betwixt him and the Ascendant) foure Miles; and if he be 
in a common Signe, give for every Signe a Mile and a halfe; and if he be in a moveable Signe, 
give for 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


every Signe (betwixt them) halfe a Mile, and the overplus of the Degrees, according to the Signe 
the Lord of the Ascendant is in: 
As for Example; 


A Question was asked, and the 7th Degree of Capricorn ascended, and Saturn in Scorpio foure 
Degrees; so there is between the Ascendant and Saturn 3 Signes, and Saturn in a fixed Signe; 
therefore I must give for every Signe 4 Miles, 3 times 4 is 12, and there is 3 Degrees more to the 
which belong halfe a Mile; so the whole sum is 12 Miles and a halfe. 


The Place where the Goods stolne are. 
[More certainly by the Lord of the 4th. This is where things are hid in grounds. | 


If you will know the place where the thing stolne is in; take Signification of the Place from the 
Signe the Significator of the Thiefe is in, and from the place of the Lord of the 4th House; if they 
be both in one Signification it is well; if not, behold then what place is Signified by the Lord of 
the 4th House, and judge by that Signe the nature of the place where the thing stolne is. If he be 
in a moveable Signe, it is in a place high from the ground; if in a fixed Signe, it is in the Earth; 
and if in a common Signe, it is under some Eaves of a House; and helpe your judgment in these 
by the Terme of the Signes, as if the Significator be in Aries, it is in a place where Beasts doe use 
that be small, as Sheep, or Hogs &c. if he be in Leo, it is in a place of Beasts which bite as Dogs, 
&c. if he be in Sagittarius, it is in a place of great Beasts that are ridden; as in a Stable of Horses, 
or such like: if in Taurus, Virgo or Capricorn, it signifieth a House or place of great Beasts, as 
Oxen, Kine or such other Cattle: Virgo and Capricorn Signifieth a place of Camels, Mules, 
Horses, Asses, and such like: Virgo hath the Signification of a Barn, or of such places as be under 
the Earth, or neer to the Earth, or Granaries, such as they put Corne in: 

Capricorn signifieth a place of Goats, Sheepe, Hogs, and such like. If he be in Gemini, Libra, 
Aquarius, it is in the House; in Gemini it is in the Wall of the House; Libra neer a little House or 
Closet, Aquarius it is neer a Doore that is above a Doore or Gate, in some place on high. If 
Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces, the thing is in Water, or neer Water, and these doe Signifie a Pit or 
Cistern: Scorpio it is neer a place of unclean 


The Resolution of 


Water, or where they use to cast out filthy Water, as a Gutter: Pisces sheweth a place alwayes 
moyst. 


The place where the thing lost or stolne is hidden. 


Behold the place of the Signifier of the Thiefe, and the Lord of the 4th, if they be both in one 
Signification and wel agreeing, if not, behold the Lord of the 4th; if he be in a moveable Signe, it 
is in an high place; if in a fixed Signe, it is on the Earth; if in a common Signe, in a covered 
place. Herein behold what Signe the Moon is, or whether in the Ascendant or Mid-heaven, or 
about it, behold the forme or Signe that Ascends with her, and say the thing is in that place which 
the forme thereof representeth.. 


Where the Goods are. 


Looke to the Lord of the 2nd and his Almuten, (viz. he that hath most dignities there) there are 
the Goods: if the Lord thereof and the Lord of the 4th be both in one Signe, judge the things to be 
where they are, and the Thiefe and Theft both together; if they be not together, judge by the 4th, 
&c. 


If the Lord of the 4th be found in a fixed Sign, the Goods are in the Earth, or in a House having 
no Chamber. 


If the Lord of the 4th be in a moveable Signe, the Goods are in a Chamber above another, or in 
an upper Loft or Room. 


If in a common Signe, in a Chamber within another Chamber. If the Goods be found in a fiery 
Signe, they are East; in an Earthly South; in an Aery, West; in a Watry, North. 


[This is, when Goods are certainly known to be out of the House.] If the Lord of the Terme of the 
Moon be in an Angle, and in a moveable Signe, the Goods are in Closes where are both Corne 
and G rasse - 


If in a succedent and fixed Signe, in Woods, Parkes, or in closed Grounds that lyeth from the 
High-way-side: if in a cadent and common Signes, in a Common of divers Mens, or Pasture or 


Meddow of divers Mens. 


Haly saith, it was asked him one time when Leo was Ascending and 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Venus therein; and he saith, the thing was under a Bed neer a Robe or Covering; because Venus 
was in the Ascendant, the which is Significatrix of a Bed, and after these considerations judge. 


Lost or stolen in what part of the house. 


[The true quality of the place every Planet and Signe doth Signifie, I have exactly set forth from 
Pg. 57 to page 100.] 

If the thing is lost or stolen be in the house, & you would know the place where it is, behold the 
Lord of the 4th. and the Planet which is therein; if it be Saturn, it is hid in a dark place or part of 
the house, or in a desolate or stinking place and deep, be it a seige-house or Jakes, where people 
seldome come. 

If it be Jupiter, it signifies a place of Wood, Bushes or Bryers. If it be Mars, it is in some Kitchin, 
or in a place where fire os used, or in a Shop, &c. 

If it be Sun, it signifieth the Cloyster or Hall of the House, or the Place or Seat of the Master of 
the House. 

If it be Venus, it signifieth the place of the Seat of a Woman, or Bed or Cloathes, or where 
women are most conversant. 

If it be Mercury, it is in a place of Pictures, Carving or Books, or a place of Come, and chiefly in 
Virgo. 

If it be Moon, it is in a Pit, Cisterne or Lavatory. 


The forme or likenesse of the entring of the house. 


[This hath relation as well to any other thing as to Thefts, and may be made good use of for 
severall Discoveries. | 


Behold the place of the Sun, from him is knowne the forme and likenesse of the opening of the 
house; from Moon is knowne the Sellar, and the place that holdeth the water, or a Pit; by Venus, 
the place of Mirth, Play and women &c. from the place of the North Node is knowne the place of 
height, or highest Seat, Stool, Stairs or Ladder to climbe by; and from the place of the South 
Node is knowne the place the Wood is in, or the house the Beasts be in, or a Pillar in the house; 
and if Mercury be in a common Signe it is in a little Cell within another Chamber; if he be in a 
movable Signe, it is within a little Cell that hath another Chamber about it; if in a fixed Signe, it 
is in a house that hath no Sellar nor other Chamber, as many Country-houses have not. 


The Resolution of 


And if Jupiter or Venus, or both of them be in the 10th house, the door hath a faire opening; if 
Jupiter be in the 10th, the opening of the door is neer some Ditch or Pit, or deep place; if Mars be 
there, neer to the opening of the house is the place of making the fire, or killing os Beasts, or 
heading; if Mercury be in the 10th, say in the opening of the house, is a place where the Master 
of the house keeps his things in, viz. his instruments or Tools he uses about his Beasts; and if Sun 
be in the 10th, in the opening is some Stoole or Seat to sit on, or a bed; if the Moon be in the 10th 
house, say that in the entring of the house is a door under the ground, or some other necessary 
thing that a man hath much occasion to use in his house, as a Furnace or Overn, or such like, 


What is stolne by the Lord of the 2nd or 10th House. 


[More properly by the Lord of the 2nd.] 

Saturn—Lead, Iron, Azure, blacke or blew colour, Wooll, blacke Garments, Leather, heavy 
things, labouring tooles for the Earth: Jupiter—Oyle, Honey, Quinces, Silke, Silver: Venus— 
white Cloth, and white Wine, Green-colour. 


Mars - Pepper, Armour, Weapons, red Wine, red Cloathes, Brasse, Carbuncles, yellow Cloathes: 
Moon - ordinary and common Commodities. 


The quality of the Goods stolne. 


[These Judgments are more proper for the Country than City.| 
Behold the Lord of the 2nd; if he be Saturn, it is Lead, Iron, or a Kettle, something with three 
feet; a Garment or some blacke thing, or a Hide or Beasts skin. 


If Jupiter be Lord of the 2nd, some white thing; as Tyn, Silver, or mixed with vaines, as it were 
with yellow and white, or broad Cloath, &c. 


Sun signifies Gold and precious things, or things of good value. 
Mars - those which be fiery belong to the fire, Swords, Knives. 
Venus - such things as belong to Women, Rings, faire Garments, 
Smocks, Wastecoats, Peticoats. 


Moon - Beasts, as the Horse, Mules, Cowes, or Poultry in the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Country of all forts; Mercury - Money, Books, Paper, Pictures, Garments of divers colours. 
A signe of recovery. 


[These are excellent and approved rules, this must be in signes of short ascentions.] 

The Moon in the 7th Aspecting the Lord of the Ascendant with a Trine, Venus or the Lord of the 
2nd in the Ascendant, Jupiter in the 2nd direct, Venus Lady of the 2nd in the Ascendant, Moon in 
the 10th in Trine to a Planet in the 2nd: Moon in the 2nd, with a Trine to the Lord of the 2nd: 
Moon in the 2nd, to a Square of Sun in the 12th: The Lord of the Ascendant in the 2nd, Sun and 
Moon aspecting each other with a Trine, Sun and Moon aspecting the cuspe of the 2nd with a 
Trine: Lord of the 2nd in the 4th, or in the House of the Querent, viz. in the Ascendant. 


If it shall be recovered. 


To know if it shall be recovered or not: For resolution hereof, behold the Lord of the terme of the 
Moon, the which is Signifier of the substance stolne to be recovered. If the Lord of the terme of 
the Moon, and the Lord of the house of the Moon be increasing [To encrease in motion is, 
whenas lately a Planet had moved slowly, and now encreases his motion, or moves more quick; 
to encrease in number is, when the day subsequent he is found to have moved more minutes then 
the day or dayes preceding.] both in motion and number, and free from infortunes; it shews it 
shall be recovered whole and found, and nothing diminished thereof. 


Consider also the Lord of the houre, and take his testimony, as you did from the Lord of the 
terme of the Moon; behold also the application of the Lord of the Ascendant, unto the Lord of the 
terme of the Moon, or unto the Lord of the 2nd House; or if that they apply unto him, for when 
he doth apply unto one of them, or to both, and the Moon apply unto them both or to the Lord of 
the House, or if the Sun doe apply unto the Lord of his House, and the Moon be diminished in 
light; I meane if the Lord of the House of the Sun, doe apply to the Sun; for the state of all these 
doe Signifie that the thing stole shall be found, and especially if the Planet Signifier be in an 
angle or succedant. 


Also if the Lord of the terme of the Moon, or the Lord of the House of the Moon, or the Lord of 
the 2nd house apply unto the 


The Resolution of 


Lord of the Ascendant, the Master of the thing lost shall recover the same. Also if the Moon or 
Lord of the Ascendant apply unto the Ascendant, or one of them apply unto the Lord of the 2nd 
House, or unto the Lord of the terme of the Moon, the thing stolne shall be had againe through 
inquisition and diligent search. 


And if the Lord of the House of the Moon, and the Lord of the Terme of the Moon be both 
diminished in their motion or number, say the more part is lost and shall not be recovered. 


If the Lord of the terme of the Moon, and the Lord of the house of the Moon be increasing in 
number and motion, and safe from ill fortunes, the thing shall be restored whole and nothing 
diminished; for if those Signifiers be not Cadent from angles, it Signifieth the things shall be 
soon recovered; but is they be in angles, it Signifieth meanly, viz. neither very soone nor very 
late, viz. the recovery. 


In what time it shall be recovered. 


Behold the application of the two Planets that Signifie the recovery, and number the Degrees that 
are between them, or from the one to the other, and determine dayes, weekes, yeers, or houres, in 
this manner; Behold the place they are in, or the place of their application; for if they be in 
moveable Signes, the shorter time is required, or it shal be in weeks, or in months; in fixed 
Signes it Signifies Moneths or Yeers; in common Signs a meane betwixt both: helpe your selfe 
from these judgments: or if the Significator be quick in motion, they Signifie it shall be 
recovered quickly, or lightly: which Significators, if they be falling from angles, signifieth a time 
short, wherein the Goods shall be recovered: These Judgements are made properly for this 
Chapter; you must not judge in other things by these, or by this Method. 


Aphorismes concerning Recovery. 


The Lord of the 8th in the Ascendant, or with the Lord thereof, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


signifies the recovery of the theft. The Lord of the 2nd in the 8th, denieth recovery. 


Saturn also, or Mars, or South Node, signifieth dividing and losse of the thing, and that all shall 
not be recovered. 


The Lord of the 2nd in the Ascendant sheweth recovery, The Lord of the Ascendant in the 2nd, 
signifieth recovery after long search. 

If the 2nd House be hindered or the Lord thereof, it cannot be that all shall be found and 
recovered. 


When the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon; with the Sun, or the Lord of the 10th, or the Lord 
of the House of the Moon; or if the Lord of the 7th be with the Lord of the Ascendant, or have 
good aspect to him; or if the Lord of the 7th be in combustion; or at least the Lord of the 10th, 
and the Lord of the house of the Moon agree well together, upon such a position it is probable 
the thing lost shall and may be recovered. When both the Luminaries are under the earth it 
cannot be recovered, 


Whatsoever is lost, the Sun together with the Moon, beholding the Ascendant cannot be lost but 
will, shortly be discovered. 


Behold when the body of the Moon and the body of the Lord of the Ascendant, viz. when one of 
them applyeth bodily to the Planet that signifieth recovery; the thing stolne shall then be 
recovered; and if the application of the Significators be by Retrogradation, the recovery shall bee 
sudden, if the application be by direction, the recovery shall be before it be looked for. 


Behold also the Lord of the term of the Moon, if he do apply to the same term, and the Lord of 
the house of the Moon applies to the same house, or when the Lord of the 2nd applies to his own 
house: or when any of them apply to the Ascendant; all these do signify the time of recovery. 


Look also if the Part of Fortune have any testimony with the Lord of the Ascendant, or with the 
Moon, because when any of them apply to each other, or the Lord of the house of the Moon to 
the Moon, there is the time of the recovery in hope; and when the Lord of the Part of Fortune 
applyes to the Lord of the Ascendant, or to the 2nd house, or unto the place in which the Part of 
Fortune is, or to the Moon; all these signify recovery: Behold 


The Resolution of 


also how many degrees is from the planet which signifieth recovery, unto the angle he goeth first 
to, and the number of those degrees is the time of recovery. 


When both the lights behold themselves in angles, it signifies recovery of the thing at length, but 
with labour and pain; and it signifies more then one thief; if the aspect be a Trine, it signifyeth 
the lighter recovery. 


The Moon in the Ascendant with any Fortune, it signifies recovery: If the Moon be in Sub 
Radijs, or combust, it signifieth the thing lost shall not be recovered, if it be, it shall be with 
much pain and labour; Sun and Moon in the 10th, sudden recovery. 


If both Sun and Moon be nearer the Ascendant then any other angle, it signifyes recovery of the 
thing with much trouble, anxiety, strife, bloodshed, or quarrelling. 


When Sun is in the Ascendant, the thing stolen shall be recovered, except the Ascendant be Libra 
or Aquarius; for therein the Sun is weak. The Moon in the Ascendant and Jupiter with her, it shall 
be recovered. 


Of the discovery of the thief, and recovery of the goods. 


If the Moon be in the Ascendant, or in a Trine aspect to the Lord thereof, thou findest the thief. 

If there be a Trine aspect between Sun and Moon, it signifies recovery. If Sun and Moon be 
joyned to the Lord of the 7th, or beholding him by aspect, he cannot hide himself. 

If the Lord of the Ascendant apply to the 2nd, or the Lord of the 2nd to the Ascendant; if there be 
any application or translation of light between the Lord of the 8th, and the Lord of the 2nd; or the 
Lord of the 8th be in the 2nd, it signifyes recovery. Moon in the 2nd with one of the Fortunes, or 
applying with a good aspect to her own house, or the Lord of the sign wherein she is, sheweth 
recovery. 


The chiefest signes of no recovery are if Saturn, Mars or South Node, be in the 2nd, or the Lord 
of the 2nd in the 8th, or combust, or when the Lord of the 2nd applieth to the Lord of the 8th 
with any aspect, all or any of these are signes of no recovery. If the Lord of the 2nd be in his 
exaltation, there is 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


a great hope of recovery, especially if there be any other testimony of the recovery. 
The Theft. 


[Thefts recoverable or no,]| 

If the Lord of the 7th be in the Ascendant, the theft shall be restored againe; if the Lord of the 
Ascendant be in the 7th, it will be found after much enquiry; if Moon be in the ascendant, or with 
the Lord of the ascendant, it will be found or may be found; if the Moon be in the 5th, with the 
Lord of the ascendant, it may be had; or if Sun and Moon be in the 5th, and the Lord of the 8th 
be with the Lord of the ascendant in the ascendant, it will be found. 


If the Lord of the 2nd be in the 8th, it cannot be had; if Saturn or Mars or South Node be in the 
2nd, it will not be had; if the Lord of the 2nd be in the ascendant, it will be had againe, and none 
shall know how; if the Lord of the ascendant be in the 2nd, with great labour it may be had; if the 
Lord of the 2nd be cadent, it will not be had; but if he be in his exaltation, it will be quickly 
restored; the sooner if Moon apply unto him. 


Other Judgments of Thefts. 
Lord of the ascendant and Lord of the 7th joyned, it shall be got by searching of the Querent. 
Lord of the ascendant in the 7th, or the Lord of the ascendant joined to the Lord of the 8th, or 
Lord of the 7th in the ascendant, the Thief comes of his owne accord before he goes any farther; 


very many times I have found it so. 


If Moon be separated from the Lord of the ascendant, and be joyned to the Lord of the 7th, he 
shall be found, viz. the Thief. 


The Lord of the 7th joyned to an Infortune in an angle, he shall be taken: the Lord of the 7th 
joyned to a Fortune, he shall not be taken, unlesse that Fortune be under the Sun Beames, or 
impedited; if he goe to combustion, it signifies his death. 


[I have oft found this true.] Moon joyned to an infortunate Planet, he shall be found; the Moon 
joyned to a retrograde Planet, he returnes of his owne accord, if he went; if the same 


The Resolution of 


Planet be stationary, he shall not remove from his owne place untill he be taken. 
Whether the Thief shall be knowne or not. 


Most Planets in cadents, he shall be knowne: Sun Conjunct, Square or Opposition to the 
Significator of the Thief, knowne; Sun in Sextile to him, he is suspected, but not openly knowne. 


Whether the Thief be suspected of the Owner or not. 


If the Thief be in Square or Opposition to the Lord of the ascendant he is suspected, a Trine or 
Sextile, not; if the Thieve’s Significator be in Conjunction with the Moon, the Owner suspecteth 
one with him, or using his owne company. 


If the Moon be in Square or Opposition to any Planet in the 10th or 7th, say he suspecteth one far 
from him, except the Almuten of the 10th or 7th house be in Square or Opposition to the Moon. 


If Moon have Conjunction or Opposition to a Planet in the 7th, or to the Almuten thereof, the 
Owner suspecteth him; but if Moon aspecteth another Planet, he suspecteth another, and not the 
Thief: if the Moon be joyned to, or received of an evill Planet, the suspected is the Thiefe; look 
to the Lord of the ascendant and the Moon, and take the strongest of them, who if he have 
received any vertue from evill Planets, viz. separated from them, he hath played the Thiefe; and 
so much the more being received of the Lord of the 2nd: Lord of the ascendant in an angle, 
applying or seperating to a Planet in a cadent house, truth is said of him; or Moon conjoyned to a 
Planet in an angle, especially in the 10th, signifies the same. 


Who did the Deed or Theft. 


[This where the querent is suspected a Knave.] 

Lord of the ascendant in the 2nd, or 7th, it is the Owner himselfe; or Lord of the 2nd in the 
ascendant, the owner. If Sun and Moon be with the Lord of the 3rd, it’s Owner’s Kinsman; Sun 
and Moon in the 4th, Father or Mother, or a Friend; Sun or Moon in the 5th, a Sonne or Daughter 
of the Owner; Sun or Moon in the 6th, a Servant; Sun or Moon in the 7th his Wife or a Woman, 
Sun 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


and Moon together cojoyned, beholding the ascendant, the Owner’s acquaintance; or if either of 
them behold the ascendant, idem. Sun or Moon in their proper houses, or in the ascendant, the 
Owner may be justly suspected. 

If Sun or Moon be not together, but one of them behold the ascendant, it was one was borne, or 
formerly lived in the house where the robbery was done, If Sun or Moon be in their owne 
Triplicity, the Thief retaines him that lost the Goods; they having but a Face where they are, then 
he is not one of the house, but Kin unto him. [A Familiar of the house. ] 

If Sun or Moon behold the ascendant, and not the Thief, the Thief entred not the house before he 
took it. 

If the Thiefe have any great Dignities in the ascendant, the Thiefe is Kin to the Querent, or a very 
neer acquaintance. Mars being Significator of the Thiefe, and placed in the 10th, the querent is 
the Thief, or very negligent. 

The Lord of the 7th in the ascendant, he is suspected to be the Thief e. 


Whether it be the first fact the Thief hath committed. 


If Sun and Moon doe behold the Lord of the house where the Moon is from an angle, he hath 
plaid the Thiefe more then once. If Part of Fortune or Lord of the 7th be free from misfortunes, 
or Jupiter Significator alone of the Thiefe, it is the first fact he hath committed. 

Mars seperating from the Lord of the 7th, or Saturn Orientall, it is not the first; Mars Significator, 
he breaketh in [viz. by violence.]; Venus, under the cloak of love; Mercury, by subtilty and 
flattery. 


Of Theft by Astrologie, or LILLIES best experienced Rules. 


[Number.] Many Thieves, if Peregrine Planets be in angles. The Significator in a Signe of 
Fruitfulnesse, viz. Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces; or in a Bycoporeall, viz. Gemini, Sagittarius, Virgo, 
Pisces; or beholding many peregrine Planets. 


[One.] The angles fixed, or the Moon or Significator in Signes of direct ascention which are 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius; or in Signes not fruitfull, viz. Aries, Taurus, 
Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, Capricorn. 


The Resolution of 


The Sex. 


Masculine, if the Lord of the hour, Lord of the 7th and his Dispositor be Masculine, or if the 
Dispositor of the Moon and the Planet to whom she applies be masculine; or if the Significator 
be in the part of Heaven, viz. in the Ist, 12th, 11th or 7th, 6th, Sth, and Orientiall. Feminine, if 
the contrary to this happen. 


Age. 


Old, or in yeers, the Significator being Saturn. 
A man, if Jupiter, Mars or Sun. 
Not so old, if Mercury or Venus be Significators. 


The Moon for her age, viz. young, she in her first quarter; more man if in her second quarter; and 
so in her third quarter more aged; in her last quarter of greater yeers. 


Where note, the Moon or any Planet Orientall, denotes the Thief more young; Occidontall, more 
aged. Or thus; observe in what house the Significator is in, give for every house five yeers from 
the ascendant. 


Or observe the degree descending in the 7th house, and give for every degree two yeers. 


Or see the age of the Planet to whom the Moon applyes, or the 
Significator of the Thief, or consider the day of the moneth the 
Question is asked, give for every day elapsed to the day of the 
Question two yeers. 

The best way, and most sure is, to consider most of these wayes, 
and pitch upon the greatest number. 


Forme and Stature. 


Proportion great, if the Significator have much Orientality, and be in Leo, Scorpio or Sagittarius. 
Proportion little, if his Occidentality be much, or the Significator in Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces. 
The upper part of his body is thick and strong, if the Significator be in Aries, Taurus, Leo; his 
lower parts if in Sagittartus, Gemini, Scorpio. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Fat. 


If the Significator have much latitude from the Ecliptick, be Retrograde, or in his first station, or 
in the first part of Aries, Taurus, Leo, or in the last part of Gemini, Scorpio, Sagittarius. 


It’s probable he inclines to talnesse, the Moon in Cancer or Pisces, Libra, Virgo or Aquarius give 
fleshy bodies, and well proportioned. 


Leane 
The Significator having small latitude, or direct, or in his second station, or in the beginning of 
Gemini, Scorpio, Sagitarrius, or in the summity of his Eccentricity. 
Sun beholding the Significator, gives a handsome shape and fatnesse; the Moon Beholding, gives 
temperature and moystnesse. 
The Thiefs strength. 


Significator in South Latitude, the party is nimble; in North latitude, slow in motion. 


A Planet in his first station gives strong bodies; going out of one Signe into another, weak and 
feeble. 


Where the Knave is. 
He flyes, or is running out of one place into another, or removing his Lodging, if the 
Significators be going out of one Signe into another; or if the Significator be leaving combustion, 
or the Rayes of the Sun; or if the Thief s Dispositor separate from the Lord of the Ist, and apply 
to a Planet in the 6th, 8th or 12th. 
He flies, or is farre distant if the Significator of the Thiefe and thing sought after be not in one 
quarter of heaven, or apply to the Lord of the 3rd or 9th, or if the Significators be in the 3rd or 
9th. 


He remaines. 


If the Lord of the Ist be joyned to a Planet in a cadent house, and behold the ascendant. 


The Resolution of 


A Familiar if Sun and Moon at one time behold the ascendant, or if the Lord of the Ist be joyned 
to the Lord of the 7th in the ascendant. 


Or if Sun and Moon be in Leo or Cancer, or in the ascendant it selfe, or in the house of the Lord 
of the ascendant, and beholding him, or the Lord of the 7th house in the 12th or 8th, the Sun or 
Moon in their exaltation, note one well knowne, but not of the Family. 


The Luminaries in their Termes or Faces, the party is known to some of the household, but not of 
the Family; Lord of the 7th in the 7th he is of the Household. 


A Stranger. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the 3rd or 9th from his house. Lord of the ascendant and Lord of the 
7th not if one Triplicity. 


If you see the Thief is domesticall, then 


Sun Signifies Father, or Master, 

Moon The Mother, or Mistris. 

Venus The Wife, or a Woman. 

Saturn A Servant, or a Stranger lying there by chance. 
Mars A Son, or a Brother, or Kinsman. 

Mercury A Youth, Familiar or Friend. 


Whither is the Thief gone, or Fugitive. 


Where you are principally to observe, that the ascendant or a Significator in the ascendant, 
signifieth the East; but this Table expresses the quarters of Heaven more fully. 


1st house- East. 7th house- West. 

2nd house- Northeast by East. 8th house- Southwest by South. 
3rd house- North Northeast. 9th house- South Southwest. 
4th house- North. 10th house- South. 

5th house- Northwest by North. 11th house- Southeast by South 


6th house- West, Northwest. 12th house- East, South-east. 


Aries- East. 
Taurus- South and by East.. 


Gemini- West and by South. 


Cancer- is full North. 
Leo- East and by North. 
Virgo- South and by West. 
Libra- full West. 


Scorpio- North and by East. 


Sagittarius- East by South. 
Capricornus- Full South. 
Aquarius- West by North. 
Pisces- North by West. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Signes. 


Aries- East.. 

Leo- Northeast by East. 
Sagittarius- East Southeast. 
Libra- West. 

Gemini- Southwest by West. 
Aquarius- West, Northwest. 
Cancer- North, 

Scorpio- North, Northeast. 
Pisces- Northwest by North. 
Capricornius- South. 
Taurus- Southeast by South. 
Virgo- South, Southeast. 


[This small difference breeds no error, let every one use what he finds most true. ] 
The flight of the Thiefe. 


It’s swift, if his Significator be swift in motion, or joyned to Planets swift in motion, or being 
himselfe in Signes movable or of short ascentions. 


His flight is uncertaine. 


If his or their Significators are in their 2nd station, or joyned to stationary Planets in angles or 
succedants. 
He makes slow haste. 


If his Significator is slow in motion, or joyned to Planets of slow motion, or in Signes fixed or of 
long ascentions. 


He shall be taken. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be in the 7th, or in Conjunction to the Lord of the 7th; or the Lord of 
the 7th in the Ist, or joyned to the Lord of the Ist, or a Retrograde Planet; or if the Moon separate 
from the Lord of the 7th, to the Conjunction of the Lord of the Ist; or from the Conjunction of 
the Lord of the Ist to the Lord of the 7th; or if Sun and Moon be in Conjunction with the Lord of 
the 7th, some day, if they behold him; or if the Lord of the 7th be going to Conjunction, viz. 
Combustion; or if the Lord of the ascendant be in Conjunction in the ascendant, 10th or 7th, or 
an infortunate Planet in the 7th. 


The Resolution of 


If the Lord of the 7th be in aspect with a Fortune, if in aspect to Jupiter or Venus in the 11th, he 
escapes by friends; if in the 3rd, by strangers. 


The Goods restored. 


If the Lord of the 1st and 2nd are in Conjunction with the Lord of the 8th, or in any strong 
Reception: 


Or if the Lord of the 2nd depart from Combustion; or Sol or Moon in the ascendant or 10th 
house, it notes recuperation; the most part, if they are strong; lesse, if they be weak. 


There’s hope of retribution when the Lights behold themselves with any aspect, chiefly in angles; 
or the Lord of the 7th or 8th. 


No Restitution. 


If the Lord of the 2nd be Combust or the Lord of the 7th in Conjunction with the Lord of the 8th; 
or if the Lord of the 2nd behold not the 1st house, or his Lord; or the Sunne and Moon not 
aspecting themselves, or the Part of Fortune, or when both are under the earth. 


Other Rules that the Thiefe shall be taken. 


Moon in the 7th, applying to the Lord of the 8th. 

Lord of the Ist in the ascendant. 

Moon in the 7th applying to a Square of Mars. 

Moon seperating from a Square of Saturn or Mercury, applying to a Square of Sol. 
Moon in the 6th, 8th or 12th. 

Moon Seperating from a Conjunction of Saturn, applying to a Square of Mercury. 
Moon in the 8th, in Opposition to Mars in the 2nd. 





CHAP. LI. 
Of Battles, Warre, and other Contentions. 
If one demand, whether he shall overcome his Adversary or not; give to the Querent the Lord of 


the ascendant the Moon, and the Planet from whom she is separated; and unto the Defendant the 
7th 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


and his Lord, and the Planet to whom the Moon applyeth; and behold whose Significator is in 
Angles and gest and with better Planets, and so judge. 


If evill Planets be in the Ascendant, and Fortunes in the 7th, the Adversary shall overcome, & e 
contra.. The Lord of the 7th in the Ascendant, betokens victory to the Querent, & e contra. 


Whether one shall return: safe from Warre, or any 
dangerous Voyage. 


Behold if the Lord of the Ascendant be strong, and with a good Planet, and well disposed; it is a 
great testimony of security, & e contra. Behold also the 7th and the Lord thereof, and if they be 
Fortunate (although the Ist be not so) yet shall the Party returne, though not without great 
crosses and lets, & e contra. Behold also the Moon how she is disposed; for her application with 
the good is Fortunate, & e contra. Evill Planets also in the 8th, are no small Signification of 
feare, and terrour, or death. Saturn signifies ruines or bruses, Mars or the South Node wounds by 
Weapons.. 


If one shall returne safe from Warre. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant be with good or good himselfe or a good Planet in the Ascendant, he 
shall returne safe. If the Sun be with the Lord of the Ascendant in any part of the Question, he 
may not goe; because the Sun burnes him. If the Lord of the 7th be with a good Planet, and the 
Lord of the Ascendant with an evill, he shall have some impediment in his way, yet shall not dye. 


If an evill Planet be with the Lord of the Ist, and a good one in the Ist; if he then goe, he shall 
suffer great losse, but not death; but questionlesse he will be sorely wounded. 


If Saturn be in the Ist, or with the Lord of the Ist, let him not goe; because losse will happen 
unto him by one whom he meeteth: If an ill Planet be with the Lord of the 1st, and Saturn in the 
Ascendant, or with his Lord, he shall be wounded with Wood or 


The Resolution of 


Stone. If Mars or the South Node be in the Ascendant, or with the Lord thereof, or evill Planets 
in the Ist, or with the Lord thereof, he shall receive a wound, and go neer to dye thereof.. Also if 
an evill Planet be in the 8th, it is to be feared, death will ensue; if the Sun be with the Lord of the 
7th, or in the 8th, it is ill to goe; and so of the 10th and 7th. 


What will ensue of the Warre. 


Behold the Lord of the 7th and Ist, and their Lords: the Ist house signifieth the Querent, the 7th 
his Adversary; if good Planets be in the Ist, and malevolent in the 7th, and the Lord of the 
Ascendant good, and the Lord of the 7th ill; the Querent overcomes: but if an Infortune be with 
the Lord of the Ascendant, and an evill Planet in the Ascendant; and the Lord of the 7th good, 
and a good Planet there, the Querent shall be overcome, and shall be taken or slaine. 


If both the Lord of the Ascendant and 7th be in the Ascendant, and on the behalfe of the Lord of 
the Ascendant, there be good Planets casting their benevolent aspects to the cuspe of the 2nd; 
then the Querent will doe well in the Warre and obtaine money thereby; he shall have victory of 
his Adversary, or they will endeavour to be reconciled.. 


[Any Planet in the 10th, 11th, 12th, Ist, 2nd, 3rd, is conceived a friend to the Querent. So all 
Planets in the 9th, 8th, 7th, 6th, 5th, 4th, are reputed for the Quesited. | 

If both Lords, viz. of the 1st and 7th, be in the Ascendant, and good Planets be on the part of the 
Ascendant, and evill on the part of the 7th; both Parties shall suffer losse; but the Querent shall 
have the better in the end. If the Lord of the 7th be in the Ascendant, of his Question, it shewes 
the Fortitude of the Actors; the contrary noteth the contrary. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the 8th, or with the Lord of the 8th, or the Lord of the 8th in 
the Ascendant; it notes the death of the Querent. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the 2nd, or with the Lord thereof; or the Lord of the 2nd in the 7th, or 
with the Lord of the 7th; it notes the death of the Adversary. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LII. 
Who shall doe best in a suit of Law. 
[This shall be more copiously handled, ere I conclude the judgements of this 7th house. ] 


If the Lord of the Ascendant and 7th be in angles, weither shall overcome: See which is joyned to 
an evil Planet in a cadent house, that Party shall be overcome: If both be joyned to Infortunes, 
both Parties will be undone by the Suit, or receive infinite prejudice. If the one be strong and the 
other weake, and he that is strong be not cadent, nor joyned to an Infortune; and he that is ill 
dignifyed, or in a weake quarter of Heaven or House, I say, if he be not in his owne House, or 
Exaltation, or with a good Planet; then the strongest in the Scheame overcomes. 


He that is but meanly strong in the Figure, seems very fearfull; sometimes he hopes to win, at 
othertimes to loose: and observe this in Questions, concerning Warres and Kingdomes, the 
Fortitude of a Planet is greater in his Exaltation then in his House, in all other Questions quite 
contrary. 


Of Partnership, Society or Fellowship betwixt two, if it 
shall be, or not. 


If good Planets be in the 7th and Ist, the Society shall be, and good will come of it: the 
continuance of it, whether for yeers, dayes, or moneths, is knowne by the Lord of the 7th. If you 
will know when it shall be, see if a good Planet be in the 7th, then the Society or Partnership 
shall be that yeere. If the Lord of the Ascendant and 7th agree in nature and quality, the Parties 
will agree; if not, they will disagree, and there will be perpetuall (or at least often) jangling. 


Of two Partners, which shall game or doe best. 
The Lord of the Ascendant and 7th are to be considered, and in what state their Lords be, and so 


judge; for if the Significators of the Querent be in better dignities then the Quesited, the Querent 
prospers; & e contra. If evill shall come on the 


The Resolutionn of 


businesse, then he whose Significator is in a cadent house, that party doth the worst; if any ones 
Significator be exalted, he gaineth. 


See the 2nd and his Lord, and the 8th and his Lord, and in which of these houses the best Planet, 
or the Lord thereof in the best place, or joyned to the best Planet, he shall game most. The 2nd 
house sheweth the Querents substance, the 8th the riches of the Companion or Partner; if both be 
good, both shall game. If both ill, both shall lose; if one good and the other ill, he that hath the 
good Planet shall gaine, the other shall lose. 


Of familiarity betwixt Neighbour and Neighbour. 


Whether Society or Friendship shall endure, behold if a good Planet be in the 7th, then he 
pretendeth thee or the Querent good fellowship and meanes really, especially if the same Planet 
or the Lord of the 7th behold the ascendant, or the Lord thereof, with a Trine or Sextile aspect; 
also it shall endure so many Moneths, Dayes or Yeers, as he hath Degrees to goe in the same 
House, or Signe, fixed, common, or moveable. 


Of removing from place to place. 


Behold the 4th and 7th houses, and their Lords, and if they be good and strong, and well affected, 
and good Planets in the said houses, it is very good, & e contra. 


Another. 


The Lord of the ascendant stronger then the Lord of the 7th, abide; if not, remove; if both be 
evill, stay; & e contra. Moon seperating from Infortunes, goe; from Fortunes, abide. Note the 
ascendant is for the Journier ( or the place he goeth from,) the 7th the Place whither he would 
goe. Also if the Lord of the ascendant separate from Infortunes and apply to Fortunes, goe; If 
from Fortunes, and applieth to Infortunes, stay: and if the Lord of the Ascendant and Moon 
agree, the judgement is more certain. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Of removing from one place to another; or of two 
Businesses, which is best. 


Consider the Ist and 2nd houses, and their Lords, and the Lords of the places to which thou 
wouldest goe, and Lord of the substance thou thinkest for to attaine there, see the 7th and 8th 
houses and their Lords, which of them is best and strongest, thither goe and remove. Or see the 
Lord of the ascendant or the Moon, whom if thou findest to be separated from evill Planets, and 
joyned to Fortunes, it is better to goe then stay, and doe any businesse thou intendest. If the Lord 
of the ascendant be separated from fortunes, and apply to infortunes, neither move or do the 
businesse thou intendest; see if the planet to whom the Moon applyes be better then that she 
separated from, for then thou mayest remove, else not: &c. 


If it be best to remove or stay in any place, whether Village, 
Territory, City or House. 


See the Lord of the Ascendant, 4th and 7th house; if the Lord of the 4th be in the 7th, and be a 
good planet, and if the Lord of the Ist and 7th be good, and with good planets, it is good to abide 
still: but if the Lord of the 7th be with a good planet, and the Lord of the 4th with an evill one, it 
is then not good to stay; for if he goe, he shall receive much dammage by abiding there. 


CHAP. LIT. 
Of Hunting. 


[Sith the Ancients have taken notice of such trifles, I must consent. ] 

You shall know the Lord of hunting by the ascendant, the Moon, and from the Lord of the terme 
of the degree of the Moon and from the Lord of the hour; for the Lord of the hour is of great 
force and strength, when he is in the ascendant, and the ascendant a signe of four footed beasts: 
in case of hunting see if the ascendant be a signe of four footed beasts, or an earthly signe, for 
these are good for hunting amongst mountaines, and hils; see the Lord of the ascendant, and the 
Lord of the hour, if they be fortunate or infortunate; and if either do behold other, or separate one 
from another, and if one be falling from another, 


The Resolution of 


note this. Consider after if the 7th be a signe of four footed beasts, and if you do finde in the 
same the Lord thereof, or the Lord of the hour; or the Lord of the angle fortunate, judge that the 
beast you seek for shall be found and taken. But if the Lord of the 7th be an Infortune, and the 
Moon infortunate, the good planets falling after her, after much search something shall be found, 
and little shall be taken, and that with wearinesse of the body; which shall be the truer, if the 
Lord of the ascendant be Saturn, and in the 7th or in any of the angles of the Lord of the 7th, and 
she be fortunate, say that he shall speed in his Hunting. 


Of a Law-suit or Controversie betwixt two, who shall 
speed best, or whether they shall compound, or 
have the matter taken up or not 
before they doe goe to Law. 


Behold the ascendant, his Lord and Moon, these signifie the Querent; the 7th house and his Lord 
are for the Adversary. 


If the Lord of the Ascendant or the Moon be joyned to the lord of the 7th, or be in Sextile or 
Trine aspect with mutuall Reception, the parties will easily of themselves accord, and compose 
all difficulties without mediation of any, or with a little entreaty. 


But if one receive the other, and he that is received, receive not the other Significator, they shall 
agree without Suit of law, but not without intermission of a third party or more; and those that 
intercede, for the most part shall be his Friends or Acquaintance that did receive the other Planet. 


If they, viz. the lord of the 7th and ascendant are in a Square aspect, or in Opposition, with 
Mutuall Reception, or in a Sextile or Trine without Reception, they will be reconciled, but first 
they will have one little combate at law: and you must observe, that unity shall proceed from that 
party whose Significator is lesse ponderous, and commits his disposition to the other; and this 
concord shall be the more firme, if both Significators receive one another: If the lighter Planet be 
joyned to the more weighty, and receive him not, but the superiour Planet receive him, it argues, 
he that receive would accord whether his Adversary will or not. 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


Having considered the former Significators, now observe the Significator of the Judge, who is 
ever the lord of the 10th house, and whether he aspect either of the Significators, viz. whether the 
lord of the ascendant or 7th, or be in Conjunction with either of them; see if the lord of the 
ascendant hastens to the Conjunction of the lord of the 7th, or the lord of the 7th to him, and that 
the lord of the 10th house doth frustrate their Conjunction, it’s then an argument they shall not 
agree before they have been at law, and herein the Judge or Lawyer seems faulty, who will not 
permit the parties to compose their differences: see if the Moon transferre light between the lord 
of the ascendant and 7th; if she doe not, see if any other Planet carry their influence or light to 
each other; for if it be so, it’s like some or other interpose their paines, and reconcile the parties 
though they be in law. 


See after this, whether the lord of the ascendant or 7th be strongest, for he whose Significator is 
most powerfull, ought to have the victory; he is strongest, who is in an angle, and in some of his 
essentiall Dignities; the greater his strength is, how much greater the essential Dignity is wherein 
he is; and if he be also received by any other Planet, it’s an argument that party is able, and that 
he hath the more Friends to assist him: 

if you doe find that they will compound, the first mover thereunto, will be on the part of the 
lighter Planet, who commits his disposition to the other; for is the lord of the ascendant be more 
light, and the lord of the 7th more ponderous, the first motion of peace shall come from the 
Querent, and so E CONTRARIO: A Planet in a cadent house is more weak, if not received or 
assisted by the aspect of some other; if the lord of the 7th house be in the ascendant, then the 
Querent without doubt overcomes, and the Adversary will yeeld; the like happens to the Querent, 
viz. that he shall be overcome: and this happens not onely in law Suits, and for more Moneys, 
but also in Fights, Duels and Warre: see further if the Lord of the ascendant be retrograde, it 
argues the weaknesse of the Querent, and that he will not stand to it stoutly, that he will deny the 
truth to his Adversary nor will he beleeve that he hath any right to the thing 


The Resolution of 


in question; if the lord of the 7th be retrograde, it argues the same things on the Quesited’s part. 


Behold the Significator of the Judge who is to give sentence in the Cause, which is the lord of the 
10th house, whether he be direct, and behold them, for then he will proceed according to order of 
law in the Cause, and will endeavour to shorten and determine it; but if he be Retrograde, it’s an 
argument the Judge will not goe on or proceed according to order of law, nor will he care to end 
it;nay it’s rather probable he will prolong it a longer time then he ought by law: judge the same if 
the Lord of the ascendant be separated from the Lord of the 7th, or the Lord of the 7th from the 
Lord of the ascendant. 


See if the Lord of the ascendant be in aspect with the Sun or Moon, or either of them joyned to 
him, so that no other Planet hinder their aspect, beware it be not a corporall Conjunction, for that 
signifies an impediment, unlesse the Planet were in the heart of the Sun, for then the Planet was 
fortified thereby; so is he in like nature, if the Planet be in either of the houses of the Luminaries, 
or if the Sun and Moon be in the ascendant, these argue the potency of the Querent: if the Lord of 
the 7th be dignified or qualified as before I mentioned of the Lord of the ascendant, you must 
judge in like nature on the behalfe of the Quesited: If the Lord of the ascendant be joyned to the 
Lord of the 10th, he that is the Querent will aquaint the Judge himselfs, or make meanes to 
acquaint him with his Cause, and it may be he will endeavour to bribe the Judge, that so he may 
judge on his side: if the lord of the 10th receive the lord of the 2nd, the Judge will have Money 
for his paines; but if the lord of the 10th receive the Lord of the ascendant, the Judge hears the 
Querent’s importunities, otherwayes not. 


If the lord of the 10th be more light then the lord of the ascendant, and joyned unto him, he will 
doe the Querent’s businesse, though he never speak unto him; if the lord of the 2nd be joyned to 
the lord of the 10th, then the Adversary makes meanes to the Judge; and if the lord of the 10th 
receive the lord of the 7th, he will assist him; but if he receive the Lord of the 8th, he will take 
his Money. 


If the lord of the 10th receive both Significators the Judge will 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


compose the matter ere it doe come to a full Tryall. 


If the Lord of the 10th be in the 10th, in his owne house, the Judge will then doe justice, and 
judge the cause of his honour, unlesse that Planet he Saturn: if the Lord of the 10th be onely in 
his owne Termes or Triplicity, it’s true the Judge will determine the Cause, but makes no matter 
which way it goes, if a Planet be in the 10th house that hath no dignity, or is not in Reception 
with the Lord of the 10th, it argues the parties will not be content, or stand to that Sentence, they 
both feare that Judge, and had rather have another Judge his Sentence, with which they would be 
content: If Saturn be Judge, he will not judge as he ought; if at that time Jupiter, Venus, Sun, 
Mercury or Moon be in any aspect to Saturn but Opposition, the Judge will be ill reported of, but 
in a little time will be cleered, and the aspersion taken off; but if any of those be in Opposition to 
Saturn, there will goe a hard report on the Judge for that his Sentence, and it will continue long; 
the Judges defamation will be great if Mars be in Opposition to Saturn, unlesse Mars be with 
Saturn in Capricorn, then the scandall will be the lesse. 


But to be short, in these like Judgments observe this method; the Querent is signified by the Lord 
of the ascendant, the Adversary by the Lord of the 7th, the Judge by the Lord of the 10th, the end 
of the matter from the Lord of the 4th; consider well the Lords of the houses, their Fortitudes, 
and whether they be in Angles, Succedants or Cadents, Fortunate or not Fortunate; for the Planet 
that is most strong, and best posited, is the best man, and most likely to carry the victory, and 
hath the best Cause. 


If more Planets be in the ascendant and 2nd, the Querent shall have most Friends & sic e 
contario: if both Significators give their vertue to one Planet, there will be one who will intercede 
betwixt them: if the Signe ascending and 7th be fixed, both Querent and Quesited are resolutely 
bent to proceed in the Suit or Controversie; if movable Signes be there, it’s like they have no 
great stomack to the businesse, but will end it very shortly; if common Signes be there, they will 
continue the Suit long, and have the Cause out of one Court into another; on whose part you find 
the Infortunes, that party shall receive most prejudice, sorrow and trouble by the Contention. 


The Resolution of 


You are to consider in this manner of Judgment the Moon from whom she is separated, and the 
Planet to whom she applyes are equally significant, as the ascendant and 7th house, &c. 


CHAP. LIV. 


Of Buying and Selling Commodities. 


The Buyer is signified by the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon; the Seller by the Lord of the 
7th, see if the Moon be joyned with the Lord of the 7th, the Querent may then buy the thing or 
Commodity he desires, and this quickly; if the Lord of the ascendant be a more light Planet then 
the Lord of the 7th, the Querent will occasion the sale of it, & e contra, if the Lord of the 7th be 
the lighter Planet: if the preceeding Significators have no aspect to each other, behold if the 
Moon or some other Planet transferre not the light of the one to the other, a Friend shall then 
appeare who will drive on the bargaine for them both, so that the matter will be done: In this 
manner of Judicature, you must distinguish what you are to buy; as if a Servant or Sheep, 
Hogges, Coneys, &c. the 6th house and his Lord are then considerable: if it concerne Horses, 
Asses, Camels, Oxen or Cowes, Judgment must be drawn from the 12th house and the ascendant: 
if a House, Towne or Castle, then the 4th house and his Lord, and so consider in any 
Commodity.. 


If the Lord of the 7th be in the ascendant, the Seller will importune the Querent to buy; the 
contrary if the Lord of the ascendant be in the 7th, for then the Querent hath most mind to buy: if 
either Jupiter or Venus be in the ascendant, the Buyer performes his work suddenly without any 
labour; so if the Sun be in the ascendant, and not corporally joyned to any other Planet; if 
Mercury or the Moon be in the ascendant, not infected with the evill aspect of an Infortune, they 
fortunate the Buyer, and he performes what he intended; Saturn, Mars or South Node in the 
ascendant, argue labour and difficulty, and that the matter will 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


not be had without much labour, & that the Buyer is a cunning companion, and means 
deceitfully, and will deceive the Seller, if possible: if the Infortunes be in the 7TH, have a care of 
the Seller, he will find out one trick or other to delude the Buyer; he is a crafty Fellow, &c. If the 
Moon be voyd of course, unlesse the Significators apply strongly, there’s seldome any Bargaine 
concluded, or Commodity at that time, and yet both parties wrangle, and have some meetings to 
no purpose: If the Planet from whom the Moon separates enters Combustion, he that sels his 
Land or House at that time, shall never recover them againe: but if the Planet from whom the 
Moon did last separate, be free from misfortune, and beholds the Lord of that Signe from whence 
the Judgment, or thing in question is required; it’s then possible the Seller may in time re- 
purchase the Lands or Commodities againe, or others of as good value. 


CHAP. LV. 


Of Partnership. 


The Lord of the ascendant is for the Querent; Lord of the 7th for the Partner intended: but herein 
be carefull that you observe what Planet is in the 7th, and neer the cusp of the 7th, and whether 
the party enquired of be more like to the description of the Planet posited in the 7th, or to the 
Lord of the 7th; take that Planet for his Significator who is neerest to his description, and 
consider him as you would otherwayes the Lord of the 7th, and as you ought to doe of the Lord 
of the 7th, no other Planet being in the 7th. 


Let the Moon be partner in signification; the 10th house shall shew what credit there may come 
of the Partnership: but whether the Partnership will extend to good or ill, you must expect that 
from the 4th house and his Lord, and the Planet therein posited, and the Planet to whom the 
Moon applyes. 


If the Lord of the ascendant and the Moon be in movable Signes without Reception by House or 
Exaltation, or Triplicity or Terme, then there will happen Contention, and they will disagree, but 


The Resolution of 


matters will againe reconciled, and the Partnership will hold, but still they will be mistrustfull of 
one another, nor will much good come of it: but if the Significators be in fixed Signes, their 
society will continue long; but if no Reception be, little profit will come from thence accrew to 
either party if they buy any thing, the Commodities will lye long on their hands; if the 
Significators be in common Signes, it promises a gainfull Partnership, and that they will be 
faithfull to each other; If one Significator be in a movable Signe, and the other in a fixed, the 
disturbance arising will be lesse then at first may be feared: If ill Planets aspect both the 
Significators, viz.. Lord of the ascendant and Lord of the 7th, the Partnership will be ill for both, 
neither the one party or other will deal fairly; see where, and in what house or houses the evill 
Planets are posited, and from thence you may discerne the cause: I have oft acquainted you with 
the signification of the houses: an evil Planet in the ascendant, the Querent is a false companion; 
judge the like if an evill Planet be in the 7th. 


If the Moon separate from one Fortune and apply to another, they will begin well and end well, 
though neither of them get any Wealth; but if she be separated from a good Planet, and apply to 
an ill, they begin well, but end in strife and hatred; and so the contrary: but if the Moon be 
separated from an ill Planet and apply to another, they will begin Partnership with muttering and 
repining, continue it with feares and jealousies, end it with Law-suits. 


A good Planet in the 10th, shewes they will obtaine reputation, and will rejoyce and delight in 
their mutuall Society. 


A good Planet in the 2nd, best for the Querent; in the 7th for the Partner. 


An ill Planet in the 2nd, or South Node, the Querent will get little, but be cheated, or entrust 
much, and get in few Debts. 


If the Lord of the 4th apply to the Lord of the 11th by Sextile or Trine; or if a good Planet be in 
the 4th, or if the Lord of the 11th and 4th be in Reception, or if good Planets cast their Sextile or 
Trine to the Lords of the ascendant and 7th, a good end may be expected by the Partnership 
intended: observe the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Part of Fortune, how dignified, how aspected; if the Lord of the 7th or of the 8th cast a Square or 
Opposition to it, the Querent must expect no great good from his Partner, for it’s like he will 
embessell the Estate, or their common Stock. 


CHAP. LVI. 


Whether a City, Towne or Castle, besieged, or to be besieged, 
shall be taken or not. 


The ascendant and his Lord are for the Querent, and those that doe or shall besiege; the 4th house 
shall signifie the Towne, City or Fort besieged, or to be besieged, the Lord thereof the 
Governour; the 5th house, Planets therein, and his Lord, the Ammunition, Souldiery and 
Assistants the Governour and Towne may expect to relive or assist them: [in the Town and are in 
Garrison.] If you find the Lord of the Ist strong and fortunate, or joyned to the Lord of the 4th in 
the Ist, or with the Moon or Lord of the 10th, or in any house except the 12th, 8th, and 6th, 
conditionally, that the Lord of the Ist receive the Lord of the 4th, or the Moon receive the Lord 
of the 4th, though she be not received againe, it’s an argument, the Towne, Fort or Castle shall be 
taken: or if the Lord of the 4th be in such houses as behold not the 4th, (except the Lord of the 
7th be in the 4th, then it will not be taken;) if the Lord of the 4th be with the 

ill Fortunes, and impedited, it’s probable the City shall be taken, and the Governour wounded, or 
if Infortunes be in the 4th without some strong aspect of the Fortunes, It will be taken, or can it 
hold out long, or there may be treason in Towne: If South Node be in the 4th, it will be taken, 
and there will be some goe about to betray or deliver it, or some principall Work or Fort therein; 
the Signe shewes which part of the Towne; nor doth the Governour think himself able to preserve 
it. 


If none of these Accidents or Configurations before rehearsed be, then have regard to the Lord of 
the 4th; if he be in the 4th strong and fortunate, and not Retrograde or Combust, or besieged of 
the Infortunes, or if the Lord of the 7th be there, free from all impediments, or if Jupiter or Venus 
or North Node be therein, 


The Resolution of 


and no reception between the Lord of the ascendant and 4th, then the City, Fort or Towne at that 
time surrounded or besieged, shall not be taken or delivered to the Army now besieging it; nay, if 
there be both a Fortune and an Infortune in the 4th, the Towne shall not be taken, if the Fortune 
be neerest to the cusp of the house, or first of the two Planets which shall transit the degree of the 
4th; and this you may averre with greater confidence, if the Lord of the ascendant be any thing 
weak, or a light Planet and unfortunate; but if the Lord of the ascendant be fortunate, and a 
Fortune therein, and he or the Moon behold the 4th house, it notes surrendring or taking the City, 
Towne or Castle besieged: but if he be unfortunate and otherwayes impedited, and an Infortune 
in the 2nd, or the Lord thereof Retrograde, or in Square or Opposition to the Lord of the 
ascendant, it signifies the Querent’s Souldiers will desert him, and will not continue the Siege, 
they have no mind to the work, or the Querent wants to fit instruments or materials for a Siege, 
or his Ammunition will not come opportunely, or the Souldiers will depart discontented for their 
pay, or their duties are too hard, so that he may expect no honour at this Siege. 


CHAP. LVII. 


Of COMMANDERS in Armies, their abilities, 
fidelity, and whether by them Victory may 
be bad yea or not, &c. 


A Gain, consider well all the 12 houses and their proper Significators, and make the ascendant 
Significator of the Querent, and his Lord; let the 7th & his Lord shew the opposite parties or 
Adversaries who may come to relieve the Besieged; let the 8th be their Seconds or Friends, and 
the 9th their 3rd house, and so all the other houses in order, 


An In-fortunate in the ascendant, or beholding the house with Square or Opposition, it notes, the 
Querent, or that side he takes part with, will not manage their matters well, or prosecute the 
Warre discreetly: an Infortune in the ascendant, or being Lord of the ascendant, argues no great 
justice on the Querents 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


part, or that he hath no cause to begin the Warre or quarrell, but if either a good Planet be in the 
ascendant, or behold the ascendant with Sextile or Trine, it signifies a good ground or cause on 
the Querent’s behalfe; if an Infortune be in the 2nd, and be not Lord of the 2nd (or have 
Exaltation in the Signe,) if he, I say, behold the 2nd with a Square or Opposition, it’s like there 
will be not Warre, but if any be, the Querent shall have the worst; a Fortune in that house, or 
aspecting it, shewes the contrary, &c. If an In-fortune be in the 3rd, and Mars be that Planets, and 
be strong, the Querent is like to have good warlike Provisions; say the same if Jupiter be there: 
but if Mars be therein unfortunate, his Army is like to be composed of Thieves, Highway men, 
vagrant Fellowes, seditious, and such as will obey no commands, 


If an Infortune be in the 4th, the place where the Warre is like to be, or where the Armies may 
engage, is like to be unfit for the Querent’s Army: if it be mountainous, the places are rough, 
inaccessible not habitable, full of Woods, no passage for Armies; if the place seem to be 
described moyst, it’s miery, dirty, full of standing waters, Bogs, Rivers and Brooks, not fit to 
marshall an Army in, or wherein an Army can doe any service: If Mars be in the Sth, well 
dignified, or the good aspects of the Fortunes irradiate that house, or a Fortune be therein 
posited, then it’s like the Army or Souldiers on the Querent’s part, will be good Souldiers, apt 
for fight, and obedient to their Officers; the Infortunes posited therein shew contrary qualities. If 
either of the Fortunes or North Node be in the 6th, the Carriage-Horse attending the Army, seems 
serviceable, high prized, and fit for the employment. 


If Mars be therein well dignified, the Horse entertained or employed will be fierce, impatient and 
hard to be governed. 


But if Saturn be in the 6th without dignities, the Horse are old, rotten jades, unserviceable, tyred, 
over-spent, slow, not fit for this service, diseased, &c. 


If a Fortune be in the 7th, the instruments of Warre and Fortification, the Canons and great Guns 
of the Army are faire, sound, well cast, and well performe their work: and this 


The Resolution of 


position of a Fortune in the 7th, denotes, the Enemy is no foole; if an Infortune be there, or have 
the before-named evill aspects to the house, the enemy is weak, the Querent’s instruments are 
nought, will performe no service, the Enemy will rather fight by policy, craft and treachery, then 
man-hood. 


If Fortune be in the 8th, it’s an argument no mortality or much destruction of men will follow, or 
will there be many men wounded, or their wounds difficult to cure; no great slaughters, fights, 
flights, or any set Battles will be betwixt the Armies on either part: but if Saturn be therein 
Retrograde, many prisioners will be taken, much ruine and destruction, much poverty and 
plundering will succeed. 


If a Fortune be in the 9th, or have aspect to the house, the enemy is in a good posture, hopes to 
benefit himself e by some false reports, or by some false allarums or sallies, and that he intends 
to act much by such reports, and by witty inventions, for the Enemy is politick. 


If a Fortune be in the 10th. or cast his Sextile or Trine thither, it’s an argument, the Commander 
in Chiefe is a discreet man, understands what to doe in his place, and that the Officers of the 
Army are expert men, every one in his place being capable of what he undertakes: but if Saturn 
or South Node be therein, or Mars, any wayes unfortunate, the Officers and Captaines are very 
asses and buzzards, have no judgment, simple Fellowes, the whole designe is like to be 
overthrowne by their knavery, and want or discretion and judgment; I meane, the greater part of 
the Officers, &c. they are more fit for hanging, then to Command. 


If a Fortune be in the 11th, it shewes, the Conductors of the Army are men of good discretion and 
sound judgment, expert men in the art of Warre, know how to command and order their affaires, 
are valiant and carefull, and understand in every particular when to charge or retreat; in a word, 
the Officers seem men of approved intregrity and judgment. 


If an Infortune be in the 11th, the Conductor or Conductors may be men of fidelity, and assured 
Friends and Wel-willers to the cause they undertake, but they are unexpert, and not fit to 
undertake such a waighty imployment in hand, for they nothing 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


understand the stratagems of Warre, whereby the whole cause is like to suffer. 


If a Fortune be in the 12th house, those against whom the Army is to go, are well provided, and 
resolve to defend themselves; they agree well, feare nothing, will stand it out to the last: but if an 
Infortune be there, they suspect their owne abilities, are not capable of resisting, disagree 
amongst themselves, feare surprizall every moment: It is, notwithstanding, ever considerable, 
that if Mars be in the 12th house, the Querent may justly suspect trechery, and indeed you have 
just cause to feare the same if South Node be in the 12th. Now as you have considered the whole 
12 houses on the behalfe of the Querent, so must you observe the same for the Quesited, and so 
every house in order: Which judgments rightly understood, will give great light to any manner of 
question propounded in this nature by any prime Officer or Commander. 


If the Armies shall fight. 


Behold herein the ascendant and his Lord, the Moon and Lord of the 7th, see if they be 
corporally joyned in any angle, then it seems the Armies will fight: if there be no Conjunction of 
the Lord of the ascendant and 7th, see if they behold one another by Square or Opposition, they 
will also then fight: if this happens not, see if any Planet transferre the light of one to the other by 
Square or Opposition aspect, with or without Reception; if such an aspect be, there will be a fight 
betwixt them: but if the more ponderous, of the two receive that Planet who transferres their Ight, 
no fight will be, but all things will be composed lightly. 


CHAP. LVITI. 


If the Querent have open Enemies, or any Adversaries, or 
many that doe envy him. 


This is a difficult Question, and yet by Astrologie responsible, but you must justly consider 
whether the Querent doe demand thus 


The Resolution of 


much, viz. Have I enemies or not? Or, Whether is such a man my adversary? &c. 


[But if the Querent doubt his Brother, Father, or Servant; then take Signification from each 
particular House signifying them.] 


If any be nominated, require judgment from the 7th house and Lord thereof: if the Lord of the 
7th aspect the Lord of the ascendant, with Square or Opposition, or be in like aspect with the 
Moon, it’s then very probable, the party enquired after doth envy the Querent, and wishes him no 
good: if the aspect be separated, they have lately been in some contest, or some difference hath 
been betwixt them; but if they are then applying to a Square or Opposition, the enmity, difference 
or controversie is approaching, is not yet over, will grow to a greater height then now it is, and 
the party enquired after, doth what in him lyes to thwart and crosse the occasions of the Querent.. 
In like manner, consider if the Lord of the 7th be in the 12th from the ascendant, or in the 12th 
from the place wherein the Moon is, or if the Lord of the 7th be in Conjunction with any Planet, 
or in any aspect with a Planet who is in Opposition or Square to the Lord of the ascendant or the 
Moon, without Reception, then the Quesited, or man or woman nominated, is adverse, and an 
enemy to the Querent, but if it be not so, then he or she enquired after is no enemy. 


If the Question be absolute, (as thus) Whether have I enemies yea or no? you must require 
judgment herein from the 12th house, and see if the Lord of that house be in Square or 
Opposition to the Moon with or without Reception; if so, then he hath enemies that watch for an 
opportunity against him, but they doe all things clandestinely and cunningly, and desire to play 
their part when they can doe it without noyse or rumour of evill, that so they may still goe under 
the notion of Friends, when as in truth they are trecherous, false and deceitfull: Consider also 
where and in what house the Lord of the 12th is, say confidently such people, men or women of 
such a quality or condition, are the Querent’s adversaries: Many Planets in the 7th, denotes many 
enemies [often and ever by me found true.] Many Planets in the 2nd, much want of money, if 
they are all ill dignified, &c. and so doe in all the rest, observing how many Planets there are in 
the 7th, and of what houses they are Lords of, or from the houses 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


whereof they are Lords, from thence doe you require the quality of the people who are enemies, 
&c. remembering, that the Square aspect shewes envy and malice, yet posible to be reconciled, 
Opposition aspects with Reception, never, &c. 


CHAP. LIX. 


A LADY, if marry the GENTLEMAN desired? 





Judgment upon the Figure above-said. 


The true state of this Ladies cause stood thus: A Gentleman had been a long time an ernest Suitor 
unto her for Marriage, but she could never master her affection so much as to incline to Marriage 
—thoughts with him, but slighted him continually; and at last, to the great discontent of the 
Gentleman, she gave him an absolute deniall: After which deniall so given, she became 
passionately affectionate of him, and did sorely repent of her 


The Resolution of 


folly, and so churlish a carriage, wishing she might againe have former opportunities. This was 
her condition at what time she propounded the Question unto me. 


The ascendant and Sun are for the Querent; Saturn Lord of the 7th, is for the man Quesited after, 
The Querent was moderately tall, of round visage, sanguine complexion, of a cheerfull, modest 
countenance, gray eyed, her haire a light browne, occasioned, as I conceive, by Sun Lord of the 
ascendant, in the Termes of Mars, she was well spoken, and sufficiently comely. 


Finding Saturn in an angle of the South, and in Conjunction with Mars, and both in Taurus, a 
fixed, earthly Signe, I judged the corporature of the Quesited party to be but meane, and not tall, 
or very handsome, his visage long and incomposed, a wan, pale or meagre complexion, dark 
haire, or of a sad, chestnut colour, curling and crisp, his eyes fixt, ever downward, musing, 
stooping forward with his head, some impediment in his going, as treading away, &c. [ this was 
confessed.] Finding Saturn so, as abovesaid, elevated, and in Conjunction with Mars, I judged 
the Gentleman to be sad, angry, much discontented, and scorning his former slights, (as ever all 
Saturine people doe;) I judged him much incensed by a Kinsman or Gentleman of quality, 
signified by Mars, Lord of the 3rd, in part, from the 7th, and of the 4th, being the 10th from the 
7th; and that this Gentleman and he lived either in one house, or neer one another, because both 
Significators are angular and fixed, [and so it was,] I said the Gentleman had no inclination or 
disposition unto her, finding the Moon separated from voyd of course, and applying to 
Opposition of Sun, Lord of the ascendant, it did agrue there was small hopes of effecting her 
desire, because she her selfe, by her owne perversnesse, had done her selfe so grand a mischiefe, 
Whereupon she told me the truth of all, and not before, and implored my directions, which way, 
without scandall to her honour, it might be brought on againe, if possible: and indeed she was 
lamentably perplexed, and full of heavinesse. Hereupon, with much compassion, I began to 
consider what hopes we had in the Figure: I found Sun applying to a Sextile of Saturn; this 
argued the womans desire, and the strength of her affections toward the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Quesited, because she is signified by the lighter Planet; but there was no Reception betwixt the 
Significators, therefore that application gave little hopes: but finding Reception betwixt Jupiter 
and the Moon, and betwixt Sun and Moon, she in his Triplicty, Sun in her House; observing also 
that the Moon did dispose of Saturn in her Exaltation, and of Jupiter in her House, and that 
Jupiter was very neer a Sextile Dexter of Saturn, still applying, and not separated; as also, that 
Jupiter was in his Exaltation, and a fortunate Planet ever assisting nature and the afflicted, and 
that he was able by his strength to qualifie and take off the malice of Saturn: besides, the 
neernesse of Jupiter to the Sextile of Saturn, made me confident that the Quesited was intimately 
acquainted with a person of quality and worth, such as Jupiter represented, whom I exactly 
described, and the Lady very well knew: Unto him I directed to addresse her Complaints, and 
aquaint him fully with her unhappy folly: I positively affirmed, in the Gentleman described she 
should find all honour and secrecy, and I doubted not but, by God’s blessing, he would againe 
revive the businesse (now dispaired of) and bring her to her hearts content: But finding that 
Saturn and Sun came to Sextile aspect the 27th of the same moneth, I advised to hasten all things 
before the aspect was over; and also gave direction, that the 19th of June neer upon noon, the 
Gentleman should first move the Quesited in the businesse: and my reason was, because that day 
Saturn and Jupiter were in perfect Sextile aspect.. 


My counsell was followed, and the issue was thus: By the Gentlemans meanes and procurment 
the matter was brought on againe, the Match effected, and all within twenty dayes following, to 
the content of the sorrowfull (but as to me unthankfull) Lady, &c. In Astrologie, the true reason 
of this performance is no more then, first, an application of the two Significators to a Sextile, viz 
the Lord of the 7th and Ist: Next, the application of the Moon to the Lord of the ascendant, 
though by Opposition, yet with Reception, was another small argument; but the maine occasion, 
without which in this Figure it could not have been, the application of Jupiter to Sextile of Saturn 
Lord of the 7th, receiving his vertue which Saturn did render unto him, and again transferred to 
the Sun Lord of the ascendant, he, viz. Jupiter, meeting with no manner of prohibition, abscission 
or frustration untill his perfect 


The Resolution of 


Conjunction with the Sun, which was the 29th of June, so that no difficulty did afterwards 
intervene, I did aquaint this Lady, that very lately before the erection of this Figure, her Sweet- 
heart had been offered a Match, and that the Gentlewoman propounded, was such a one as is 
signified by Venus, one not onely of a good fortune, but excellently well descended: I had her 
follow my directions, with hope and expectation of a good end, and told her she should not fear 
his marrying of Venus: Which judgment I gave, by reason Mars was neerer Venus then Saturn, 
and so interposed his influence, or kept off Saturn. I judged Mars to be some Souldier, or 
Gentleman that had been in Armes: this I did the more to enlighten her fancy, which I found 
apprehensive enough. She well knew both the Gentlewoman and man, and confessed such 
matters were then in action. 


Had the Quere been, Who should have lived longest? certainly I should have judged the woman, 
because Sun is going to Conjunction of Jupiter, and Mars afflicts Saturn by his presence. 


Had she demanded, Whether the Quesited had been rich? I must have considered Jupiter Lord of 
his 2nd house, whom I find in his Exaltation, Direct, Swift, &c. only under the Sun-Beames; I 
should have adjudged his Estate good. 


For Agreement, because Sun and Saturn are applying to Sextile, I should have conceived they 
would wel accord; yet doubtlesse Saturn wil look for much observancy, for as he is ill by nature, 
so is he vitiated by Mars, and made thereby chollerick as well as melancholly, so will he be 
naturally jealous without cause; yet the gentle Sextile of Jupiter to both Mars and Saturn, seems 
by education, to represse that forwardnesse naturally he may be subject unto. 


If it be demanded, Will the Querent be honest? I answer, her Significatrix, viz. Sun, is no way 
afflicted by Mars: her Signe ascending being Leo, and Reception betwixt Jupiter and Moon, are 


arguments of a vertuous woman. 


In this nature you may examine any Figure for discovery of what is necessary, &c. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LX. 


If she should marry the man desired? 


we f. hb 
Die fo 





The Judgment. 


The Querent was of tall stature, ruddy complexioned, sober, discreet and well spoken, &c. The 
quesited was very tall, slender, leane, and of a long visage, black haire: His talnesse I attribute to 
Jupiter, as being in the Termes of Mercury, and the cusp of the 7th being also in his Termes: and 
indeed the being of a Significator in the Termes of any Planet, doth a little vary the party from 
his naturall temper and constitution, so that he will retaine a small or great tinture from that 
Planet according as he is dignified: The sadnesse of his haire, I conceive to be from Jupiter his 
aspect to Saturn, and the Moon her Square unto him, being her selfe subterranean. 


Mercury is here Significatrix of the Querent, Retrograde, under 


The Resolution of 


the Sun-beames, was in some distresse and feare that the Quesited would not have her; and she 
might and had some reason for it, for Jupiter was in his Exaltation, and neer the Sextile of Venus, 
an argument the man stood upon high termes, and had been tampering with another; yet were 
both Significators in a Semisextile, and in good houses, from which I gathered hopes, that there 
was some sparks of love betwixt them; but when I found the Moon seperating from Square of 
Jupiter, and carrying his light by a Trine aspect to Mercury the Lord of the ascendant, and he in 
an angle, receiving willingly, by his Retrograde motion, that her vertue which she brought from 
Jupiter. I was confident the Match would suddenly be brought to passe by such a one as Moon 
was, or represented by her, who did much interpose in the businesse, and who at last, with a little 
difficulty, produced the Marriage to effect, to the content of both parties. 


CHAP. LXI. 


A Fugitive Servant, which way gone, when returne? 





all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Judgment upon the Figure beforegoing, 


The ascendant, and Mercury in Aquarius, together with Mars posited in the ascendant, did 
signifie the Master of the Servant, who was short of stature, corpulent, of a good complexion, 
and ruddy, fresh countenance; his fatnesse I conceive from the north latitude of Mercury, which 
was about one degree; as also, that the degrees ascending were in the Termes of Mars, in an 
ayery Signe, and in the Face or Decanate of Sun, now posited in a watry Signe, and in partill 
Trine to Moon, both in moyst Signes, which argues a flegmatick, full body, &c. 


The Significator of the Servant was Mars peculiarly in this Figure, although many times Mercury 
shall signifie a Fugitive 

Servant: The Servant was a young Fellow of about nineteen, a well set Fellow, short, big joynted, 
broad and full faced, dark browne haire, his teeth growing ilfavouredly, a Sun-burnt, obscure 
complexion, yet the skin of his body deer. 


I observe that he went away from his Master the Sunday preceding, at what time the Moon was 
in Gemini, a Westerne Signe, and that now Mars, the Significator of the Fellow was in the same 
Signe; as also, that Mercury the common Significator of Servants, was in Aquarius, a Westerne 
Signe, but South quarter of Heaven; it is true that Gemini hath some relation to the South quarter, 
and Aquarius to the North. 


I judged from hence that the Servant went westward at his first departing, and that at the time of 
the Question, he was West from the Querent’s house; and this I judged because Mars was 
angular, and every way as strong as the Moon, otherwayes I should have judged by the Moon: 
Forasmuch as Mars the Significator of the Servant, and Mercury Lord of the ascendant, were 
suddenly hastening to a Trine out of angles, I judged, that within a day or two he should have his 
Servant againe: I found the Moon in the 2nd, in her owne house; the Servant being a part of his 
Master’s Estate, I judged from hence also, that the Master should not lose, but recover forthwith 
his lost Goods; and the rather, for that the Moon was in the 2nd, and in perfect Trine of the Sun 
in the 11th, both of them in the Mediety ascending: the 


The Resolution of 


neernesse of Mars to the degree ascending, made me judge the Servant was not above three or 
four houses Westward from his Masters house. 


The truth is, that upon Friday following betimes in the morning, he came home, and said he had 
been at Kingston upon Thames: 

which if true, then he was full West, or a little to the South, and neer a great Water, viz the 
Thames, as Moon in Cancer did or might signifie. 


CHAP. LXII. 


A Dogge missing, where? 





Judgment upon this preceding Figure. 


Living in London where we have few or no small Cattle, as Sheep, Hogs, or the like, as in the 
Countrey; I cannot give example of such creatures, onely I once set the Figure preceding 
concerning 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


a Dogge (who is in the nature of small Beasts) which Dogge was fled or missing. The Quere unto 
me was, What part of the City they should search, next if he should ever recover him. 


The Querent was signified by the Signe ascending and the Lord thereof; and indeed in his person 
he was Saturnine, and vitiated according to Caudia in the Ascendant, in his stature, mind or 
understanding; that is, was a little deformed in body, and extream covetous in disposition, &c. 


The Signe of the 6th and his Lord signifies the Dogge; so must they have done if it had been a 
Sheep or Sheep, Hogs, Conies, &c. or any small Cattle. 


The Signe of Gemini is West and by South, the quarter of heaven is West; Mercury the 
Significator of the Dog, is in Libra a Westerne Signe but Southerne quarter of heaven, tending to 
the West; the Moon is in Virgo, a South-west Signe, and verging to the Westerne angle: the 
strength of the testimonies examined, I found the plurality to signifie the West, and therefore I 
judged, that the Dog ought to be Westward from the place where the Owner lived, which was at 
Temple-barre, wherefore I judged that the Dog was about Long-acre, or upper part of Drury-lane: 
In regard that Mercury Significator of the Beast, was in a Signe of the same Triplicity that 
Gemini his ascendant is, which signifies London, and did apply to a Trine of the Cusp of the 6th 
house, I judged the Dog was not out of the lines of Communication, but in the same quarter; of 
which I was more confirmed by Sun and Saturn their Trine, The Signe wherein Mercury is in, is 
Libra, an ayery Signe, I judged the Dog was in some chamber or upper room, kept privately, or 
in great secrecy: because Moon was under the Beames of the Sun, and Mercury, Moon and Sun 
were in the 8th house, but because the Sun on Monday following did apply by Trine Dexter to 
Saturn Lord of the ascendant, and Moon to Sextile of Mars, having exaltation in the ascendant; I 
intimated, that in my opinion he should have his Dog againe, or newes of his Dog or small Beast 
upon Monday following, or neer that time; which was true; for a Gentleman of the Querent’s 
acquaintance, sent home the Dog the very same day about ten in the morning, who by accident 
comming to see a Friend in Long-acre, found the Dog chained up under a table, and knowing the 
Dog to be the 


The Resolution of 


Querent’s, sent him home, as abovesaid, to my very great credit. Yet notwithstanding this, I 
cannot endure Questions of Fugitives or Thefts, nor ever would have done any thing, but with 
intention to benefit Posterity. 


Usually I find, that all Fugitives goe by the Moon, and as she varies her Signe, so the Fugitive 
wavers and shifts in his flight, and declines more or lesse to East, West, North or South: 

but when the Question is demanded, then without doubt you must consider the strength both of 
the Significator and the Moon, and judge by the stronger; if both be equivalent in Fortitudes, 
judge either by the Significator, if he best personate the Fugitive, or by the Moon, if she most 
resemble him; with relation to either of them that comes neerest in aspect to the cusp of the 
house, from whence signification is taken. 


CHAP. LXITI. 
Of Theft. 


It was the received opinion of Master Allen of Oxford, a man excellently versed in Astrologie, 
that the true Significator of a Thiefe is that Planet who is in an Angle or 2nd house, and beholds 
the 7th house: if no peregrine Planet be in an angle or the 2nd house, then the Lord of the 7th 
shall be Significator of the Thiefe, if he behold the 7th house: otherwayes that Planet to whom 
the Moon applyes, if he behold the 7th house; the rather, if the Moon separate from the Lord of 
the ascendant, And he saith further, that a peregrine Planet on what angle soever, shall not be 
Significator of the Thiefe, unlesse he behold the 7th house, or have any dignity in the degree of 
the 7th; yet if one and the same Planet be Lord of the hour and of the ascendant, he shall signifie 
the Thiefe, though he behold not the ascendant: 

The truth is, I have ever found that if a peregrine Planet were in the ascendant, he was 
Significator of the Thiefe: next to the ascendant, I preferred the angle of the South, then the West 
angle, then the 4th house, last of all the 2nd: many peregrine Planets in angles, many are or may 
be suspected, justly if they 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


are in Conjunction, Sextile or Trine; not consenting, if in Square or Opposition: ever prefer that 
peregrine Planet for your Significator, who is neerest to the cusp of the angle he is in. 


Money lost, who stole it? if recoverable? 





Judgment upon this Figure. 


Scorpio here ascends, and partly represents the Querent’s person, Mars his mind and disposition, 
who being in Square with Mercury and Saturn gave sufficient intimation unto me of the 
inclination of the Querent, who was sufficiently ill conditioned, arrogant, proud, wastfull, &c. 


Mars is here in the 25 degr. and 2 min. of Leo, is angular, and but two minutes enters his owne 
Termes, yet being in his Decanate I refused him for Significator of the Thiefe, and that justly, nor 
indeed was he. 


The Resolution of 


In the next place, although Saturn was in the angle of the West, yet did I find him in his own 
Terms, and Decanate; I also passed by him, In the next place, I found Mercury in 24.42.Taurus, 
lately separated or rather in Square of Mars, and now almost in partill Conjunction with Saturn; 
him I found truly peregrine, viz. having no essentiall Dignity where he is, therefore I adjudged 
Mercury to be Significator of the Thiefe, 


But whether Mercury signified Male or Female, was the dispute, as also the corporature, quality, 
&e. 


The angles are part Masculine, part Feminine, no certaine judgment could therefore arise from 
thence, the Moon was in a Masculine Sign, applied to a masculine Planet in a masculine 
Sign,and Mercury usually is convertible in nature, according to the nature of the Planet he is in 
aspect with: he is now in aspect with Mars, and in Conjunction with Saturn; hence I judged the 
Sex to be Male. 


And said it was a young Youth of some fifteen or sixteen: young, because Mercury ever signifies 
Youth; but more young, because the Moon was so neer the Sun, and scarce separated from him, I 
said he was of reasonable stature, thin visaged, hanging Eyebrowes, a long Forehead, some 
blemish or scarres in the Face, because Mars cast his Square dexter to Mercury; bad Eye-sight 
because Mercury is with evill fixed Starres, of the nature of Mars and Moon; a sad Haire, 
because of his neernesse to Saturn; but of a scurvy countenance, one formerly a Thief or 
suspected for such knaveries: in regard Mercury the Youth his Significator was in Conjunction 
with Saturn Lord of the 3rd & 4th, I judged he was some Neighbours child; and as the Moon was 
in Gemini and Mercury in Taurus, I conceived he dwelt either opposite to the Querent or a little 
Southwest; and because Part of Fortune was in the ascendant, and disposed by Mars Lord of the 
ascendant in the 10th, and the Moon applyed to his Sextile aspect, and was within four degrees 
of the aspect: I judged he should not onely heare of, but have his Money within four dayes after 
the Question. He beleeved not one word I said, but would needs perswade me, that a Woman- 
servant signified by Mars, was one Theef, and Saturn was another; but I stood firme to the true 
rules of Art, and would not consent unto it, because both these Planets were essentially dignified. 
The event proved directly true as I had manifested, both as to the person described, and to the 
day of the money returned, which was within three dayes after. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LIV. 


Fish Stolen. 





Living in the Country 1637. I had bought at London some Fish for my provision in Lent, it came 
down by the Barge at Walton, on Saturday the 10. of Febr. one of the Watermen, instead of 
bringing my Fish home, acquainted me, their warehouse was robbed last night, and my Fish 
stolen: I took the exact time when I ‘first heard the report, and erected the Figure accordingly, 
endeavouring to give my selfe satisfaction what became of my goods, and, of possible, to recover 
part of all of them againe. 


I first observed, there was no peregrine Planet in angle but Jupiter whom I found upon the cusp 
of the 7th house, the thing I lost was Fish, therefore any Gentleman would scorne such a course 
Commodity; I considered the signification of Jupiter in Scorpio, a moyst Signe, and the 
Significator of my Goods, viz. Mercury that he was in Pisces, a moyst Signe, and that Part of 
Fortune was in Cancer, a moyst Signe. Discretion, together with Art, assisted me to think he must 
be a man whose profession or calling was to live upon the Water, that had my Goods, and that 
they were in some rmoyst place, or in some low rooms, because Part of Fortune was in Cancer, 
and the Moon in Taurus an earthly Sign. 


The Resolution of 


I was confident I should heare of my Goods againe, because Mercury Lord of my house of 
Substance, was applyed unto by a Sextile of Moon, who was Lady of my Part of Fortune; and yet 
without hopes of recovering them, but as he was in his own Termes, and had a Trine aspect to 
Part of Fortune, there was hopes of some of my Goods, 


There being never a Waterman in that Town of Walton neer unto the description of Jupiter in 
Scorpio, I examined what Fisherman there was of that complexion; and because Mars Lord of 
the 7th was departing the Sign Scorpio, viz. his owne, and entring another Signe, I examined if 
never a Fisherman of Mars and Jupiter his nature had lately sold any Land, or was leaving his 
proper house, and going to another habitation; such a one I discovered, and that he was much 
suspected of theevery, who was a good fellow, lived neer the Thames side, and was a meer 
Fisherman, or man conversant in water; for all Significators in watry Signes, argued, he must 
needs live neer the water, or a watry place, that stole the Goods, or be much conversant in waters, 


The man that was the Thiefe was a Fisherman, of good stature, thick, full bodied, faire of 
complexion, a red or yellowish haire. 


I procured a Warrent from a Justice of Peace, and reserved it privately untill Sunday the 18th of 
February following, and then with a Constable and the Barge-man, I searched only that one 
house of this Fisherman suspected; I found part of my Fish in water, part eaten, part not 
comsumed, all confessed. This jest happened in the search; a part of my Fish being in a bag, it 
happened the Thiefe stole the bag as well as the Fish; the Barge-man, whose sack it was, being in 
the same room where the bag was, and oft looking upon it (being clean washed) said to the 
woman of the house, Woman, so I may have my sack which I lost that night, I care not: the 
Woman answered; she had never a sack but that which her husband brought home the same night 
as the Fish. I am perswaded the Barge-man looked upon the sack twenty times before, and knew 
it not, for the woman had washed it cleane I as heavily complained to the woman for 7 Portugall 
Onyons which I lost; she not knowing what they were, made pottage with them, as she said, The 
remainder of my Fish I 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


freely remitted, though the hireling Priest of Walton affirmed I had satisfaction for it, but he 
never hurt himselfe with a lye. 


So that you see the peregrine Planet in an angle describes the Thiefe, and that neither the Sun or 
Moon in the ascendant, and in essentiall Dignities, gives assured hopes of discovering who it 
was; the application of Moon to the Lord of the 2nd, argues recovery; a full recovery, if both the 
Moon and the Lord of the 2nd be essentially dignified; part, if accidentally fortified; a discovery, 
but no recovery, if they apply and be both peregrine. 


CHAP. LXV. 


A Figure erected to know whether Sir WILLIAM WALLER or 
Sir RALPH HOPTON should overcome, they being supposed 
to be engaged neer Alsford, Venus 29th March, 1644. 





The ascendant is for our Army, the Moon, Jupiter and Venus for our General’s, viz. Sir William 
& Major Generall Browne, a valiant & prudent citizen of London, who may justly Challenge a 
large share of honor in that dayes service: Sir Ralph Hopton is signified by Saturn Lord of the 
7th, his Army by Capricorn, in the descending part of heaven, which is usually given to the 


The Resolution of 


Friends and Assistants of the Enemy; there is onely Mars and South Node in the 9th, so that by 
this is appeared Sir Ralph had no supplyes ready to attend that dayes successe, &c. 


From the existence of the Moon in her exaltation, and in the 11th house with Jupiter, she being 
Lady of the ascendant, and having principall signification for us and our Army, engaged for the 
Parliment, I concluded all was, and would be well on our side, and the victory ours: by her 
separation from Jupiter, I said, I did verily conceive we had gained already from them some 
ammunition, or performed some service against them, which judgment was more strengthened 
by Sun, Lord of our assistants and substance, posited in the 10th house, in the very degree of his 
Exaltation; and though I did imagine, by reason of the proximity of Saturn to Sun, we should not 
game the whole, or have a perfect victory without diminution of some part of it, yet I was 
confident we should obtaine a considerable proportion of their Ammunition, and obtaine a 
compleat victory, the onely thing enquired after; for that the Moon did apply to Venus, and then 
to a Sextile or Mercury, he angular, I acquainted the Querent that within 11 or 12 hours after the 
question we should have perfect newes, and it pleasing and good; for considering the fight was 
within 50 miles of London, I ordered my time according to discretion, not allowing dayes for the 
time, but hours; for you may see the Moon is distant from Venus 11 degrees, but withall is in her 
swift motion, and encreasing in light, all which were arguments of our successe, and the Enemies 
routing; as it did appeare the same Friday by a Letter that came from the Army, certifying, that 
our Generals took the Thursday before, 120 Commanders and Gentlemen, 560 common 
Souldiers, much Ammunition. That according to naturall causes in Art, the Enemy should be 
worsted, I had these reasons; first, because Saturn the Lord Hopton’s Significator is Sub Radiis; 
next, he is in his Fall; thirdly, in no aspect of any Planet, but wholly peregrine and unfortunate, 
beholding the cusp of the 7th with a Square dexter, arguing losse to his Army, and dishonour to 
himselfe by the fight, &c, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXVI. 


If his Excellency ROBERT Earle of ESSEX should take 
Reading, having then surrounded it with his 
ARMIE. 


(7. Apr 1643 
oy ochlid & 





the most honorable of the English nation, viz. Essex the Kingdomes Generall, is here signified by 
Mars Lord of Scorpio, the Sign ascending: his Majesty by the Sun Lord of the 10th; the forces 
that were to relieve Reading, or to oppose and hinder his Excellency, by Venus in Pisces, and Sun 
in Taurus. 


The Towne of Reading by Aquarius the Signe of the 4th, the Governour Sir Arthus Aston, 
reputed an able Souldier, by Saturn Lord of the 4th, their Ammunition and Provision in the 
Towne by Jupiter Lord of the 5th, and Venus locally therein. 


We have Mars his Excellencies Significator excellently fortified labouring under no one 
misfortune (except being in his Fall) and of how great concernment it is in Warre, to have Mars 
the generall Significator of Warre, friendly to the Querent, this Figure well manifests; the Moon 
separated ( a cacuo) and indeed there was little hope it would have been gained in that time it 
was; She applyed to a Sextile of Mars, being in Signes of long ascensions, the aspect is 
equivalent to a Square; which argued, that his Excellency would have much difficulty, and some 


The Resolution of 


fighting, ere he could get it: but because Mars and the Moon were in Reception, viz. Mars in her 
house, the Moon in his Termes and Face, and neer Cor Leo, placed also in the 10th, I judged his 
Excellency should obtaine and take Reading, and get glory and honour thereby. 


Finding the Sun his Majestie’s Significator in the 7th, in a fixed Signe, I aquainted the Querent, 
his Majesty would oppose what he could, and send Forces to relieve the Towne with all vigour 
and resolution, but I said he should not prevaile, for Mars is better fortified then Sun. 


I considered Aquarius for the Town, and in regard I found not the Signe afflicted, I judged the 
Towne strong, and capable of holding out; when I considered Venus to be in the Sth, I was 
confident they wanted not Ammunition. Having thoroughly considered all particulars, and well 
weighed that Saturn Lord of the 4th, signifying the Governour, was in his Fall with South Node, 
and that Mercury and Jupiter were not farre from South Node, and that Mars did with his Square 
aspect behold Saturn, I said and sent somebody word, the most assured way, & which would 
certainly occasion the surrender of the Towne, was, to set division amongst the principall 
Officers, and to incense them against their Officer in Chiefe, & that about 8 dayes from the time 
of the Question, I beleeved his Excellency would be Master of the Towne, yet rather by 
composition than blood, because Sun and Mars were separated from the Square dexter of Saturn 
from Cardinal Signes; as also, because the application of the Moon was so directly to the Sextile 
of the Lord of the Ascendant, without any frustration or prohibition. 


The Towne was delivered for the Parliaments use the 27 of April, 1644. three dayes after the time 
limited by me was expired: But it’s observable, the very Monday before, being 8 dayes after the 
Figure set, they began to treat. 


The truth of this Siege was thus, that his Majesty in person did come, and was worsted and 
beaten back at Causham-bridge. 


That Sir Arthur Aston the Governour, was hurt in the head, as Saturn in Aries with South Node 
well denotes: nor did they want ammunition, as Venus in the Sth signifies. 


It was delivered by Colonel Fielding, a very valiant Gentleman, a 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


good Souldier, and of noble Family, not without jealousie and mistrust of underhand dealing in 
the said Colonell by the King’s party; for which he was brought to some trouble, but evaded: And 
I have since heard some of his Majesties Officers say thus, They did beleeve that Fielding acted 
nothing but what became a man of honour, and that it was the malice of his Enemies that 
procured him that trouble, &c. 


A person of honour demanded this Question, and was well satisfied with what hath been spoken. 


Had this very Question been of a Law suit, Who should have overcome? you must have 
considered the Lord of the ascendant for the Querent or Plaintiff, and the ascendant it selfe, 
together with the Moon: for the Enemy or Defendant, the 7th and his Lord and Planets therein 
placed. In our Figure, in regard the Moon applies to a Sextile of Mars, the Querent therefore 
would have had the victory, by reason of the Verdict given by the Jurors, who ever are signified 
by the Moon; but because the Sun is locally in the 7th, opposite to the ascendant, and is Lord of 
the 10th, viz of the Judge, there’s no doubt but the Judge would have been adverse to the 
Plaintiff, as his Majesty was to his Excellency and to the Parliment. 


In this case I should have judged the Defendant a man of good estate, or able to spend well, 
because Venus Lady of the 8th, viz his 2nd, is in Exaltation; and yet the Sun and Mars in Sextile, 
might give strong testimonies that the Judge would labour to compound the matter betwixt both 
parties; the Dispositor of the Part of Fortune in his Fall, viz. Saturn in Aries with the South Node, 
would have shewn great expence of the Querent’s or Plaintiffs estate and money in this Suit; and 
that such a man as Saturn would herein be a great enemy unto him, because Saturn and Mars are 
in Square. As Saturn is Lord of the 3rd, he may shew an ill Neighbour, or a Brother or Kinsman; 
but as the 3rd house is the 9th from the 7th, it may argue some pragmaticall Priest, or one of the 
Defendant’s Sisters Husbands; wherefore the Plaintiffe must either take such a one off, or else 
compound his matter, or must see whether his Enemies Atturney be not Saturnine, then shall he 
receive prejudice by his extreame rigid following the Cause: If Saturn signifie his Lawyer, the 


The Resolution of 


damage is by him, or by some aged man, perhaps the Querent’s Father or Grandfather, or else 
some sturdy Clowne or ill Tenant, &c. for according to the nature of the Question, you must ever 
vary the nature of your rules; by exact knowledge whereof, you may attaine the perfection of the 
whole Art. 





The EIGHT HOUSE, and those QUESTIONS 
properly belonging unto it. 


Of Death, Dowry, Substance of the Wife, &c. 


CHAP. LXVII. 


If the absent party be alive or dead? 


The true resolution of this Question depends much upon a right understanding, what relation the 
Querent hath to the party enquired of, for you have oft to read in the preceding judgments, that in 
every Question great care is to be taken, that the intentions of the Demandant and Questied party 
may be carefully apprehended, that thereby one Significator be not mistaken for another; 
wherefore for better satisfaction of this part of judgment we now are handling, you must enquire 
whether he, viz. the Querent, enquire of the death of a Friend, or of his Wife, or a Father, or a 
Child, or of a Servant, &c. Give the 1st house and his Lord for the Significator of the Querent; 
but for the party Quesited, give the Signe of that house he is signified by, the Lord thereof and 
the Moon for his Significators: if you find the Lord of his ascendant in the 4th or 8th, either from 
his owne ascendant, or of the Figure, that configuration is one argument that man or woman 
enquired after, is deceased; (this must be 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


judged where the party hath been long absent, and in remote parts, and strong intelligence 
concurring therewith.) 


Together with this, consider if the Lord of his ascendant or the Moon, be in the 12th from his 
owne house, with any evill Planet, or if he be in the 12th, in aspect of any unfortunate Planet, 
either by Square or Opposition, or if the Sun be unfortunate or afflicted, or the Moon in like 
manner, for then the absent is dead: If the Significator of the absent man or woman be in the 6th 
from his owne house, or 6th of the Question, or in any Square or Opposition or affliction of the 
Lord of the 6th, without Reception, or the benevolent aspect of a Fortune, the absent is then sick: 
but if he be going from the Conjunction of evill Planets, wither by body or aspect, so that he be 
surely separated from them, or is departing from Combustion, it argues the party enquired of hath 
lately escaped a danger or sicknesse, or perill equivalent; the greatnesse of the disaster or 
infirmity you shall judge according to the quality if the Signes the Significators are in, and 
manner of aspect afflicting, having relation to the house from whence the aspects are. 


It’s considerable, that you poyse in your judgment, whether the Significator of the absent party 
be in the 6th, or to any unfortunate Planet afflicting him, or whether he be in any amicable aspect 
with either of the Fortunes, or if he be strong in the Signe, you must not then judge the man sick, 
but rather weary or drowsie, or perhaps he hath let blood of late &c. or taken some Physick for 
prevention of a disease which he feared. 


I doe onely observe, of the Significator of the absent be strong, and separated from a Fortune, 
and in a good house, the absent lives; if he be afflicted, or was lately in Square or Opposition of 
the Infortunes, he was perplexed, or suffered much misery, according to the nature of the house 
from whence afflicted; but I judge him not dead, unlesse together with that mischance, the Lord 
of the 8th doe unfortunate him. 


The Resolution of 


Whether one absent will returne or not, and when? 


Consider by what house the absent party is signified, and what Planet is his Significator; then see 
if his Significator be in the Ist house (let his Journey be whither it will,) yet if it be a long 
Journey, and beyond Seas, then see if he be in the 9th, or if in the 12th, if a very long Journey 
was undertaken; or if he be in the 5th, if a moderate Journey was intended, or in the 3rd, if a 
short Journey. If he be in any of these houses, or do commit his disposition to any Planet in any 
of these houses, it signifies the absent will not dye in that Voyage, but returne: 

if he be in the 7th, he will returne, but not in hast; nay, he will tarry long; and he is at time of the 
Question in that country unto which he first went, nor hath he hitherto had any thoughts of 
returning; however, now he hath: If he be in the 4th, he will stay and abide longer then if he were 
in the 7th: 

if his Significator be in the 3rd or 9th, and in any aspect with any Planet in the ascendant, the 
absent is preparing to come home, and is fully resolved thereof; or if he be in the 2nd, in aspect 
with a Planet in the 9th, he is endeavouring to provide moneys for his Voyage homewards, nor 
will it be long are he be at home; but if he be in a Cadent house, and not behold his owne 
ascendant, he neither cares for his returne, or hath any thoughts thereof, nor can he come if so be 
he would: if he be cadent and also afflicted, and behold not the ascendant, but is otherwayes 
impedited, there’s no hopes of his returne, nor will he ever come; but if either his Significator be 
Retrograde, or the Moon be joyned to a Retrograde Planet, and behold the ascendant, it imports 
his sudden returne when not expected: if you find his Significator impedited, see what house he 
is Lord of that doth unfortunate him; if it be the Lord of the 4th, the man is detained and cannot 
have liberty; if it be the Lord of the 6th, he is ill; if the Lord of the 8th, he feares he shall dye by 
the way, or before he gets into his owne Country; if the Lord of the 12th, he is as a prisoner and 
cannot procure liberty: such configurations as these seem to impede his returne. 


Having considered the Significator of the absent, now have 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


recourse to the Moon, the generall Significatrix, for if she be in Conjunction or Good aspect of 
the absent’s Significator, or commit her disposition unto him, and he posited in the ascendant, it 
argues his returne; the nearer the aspect is to the degree ascending, the sooner he returnes; the 
more remote, the longer it will be. 


The Significator onely posited in the 8th, without other impediments, prolongs his returne, but at 
last he will come: but if unfortunated therein, he dyes and never returnes: Moon separating from 
the Lord of the 4th, 7th, 9th or 3rd, or any Planet under the earth, and then joyned to the Lord of 
the ascendant, or a Planet above the earth, the absent will returne. 


The time when he will returne. 


You are herein with descretion to consider, first, the length of the Journey; then the Lord of the 
ascendant and Significator of the party absent, and to observe, whether they are of the superiour 
Planets or not, or whether the Journey was long or short, or according unto discretion, in what 
space of time a man might come and goe, or performe by water or land, such or such a Journey 
or Voyage; if you find both the Significators applying by Sextile or Trifle aspect, observe in your 
Ephemeris when the day of the aspect is, and then much about that day or near unto that time, 
shall you heare some newes of the party, or have a letter from him, or concerning him; this 
supposes the party so neer, that a possibility thereof may be, for if the distance be very farre, then 
you may judge within a fortnight or more of the day of the aspect: But if you be asked, When he 
will come home, or when the Querent shall see him? then it is very probably, when both the 
Significators come to Conjunction, he will come home and the Querent shall be in his company; 
if the Significat.or of the absent be in any Signe preceding one of his owne houses, observe how 
many degr. he wants are he get out of that Signe and enters his owne house, and put them into 
dayes, weeks, moneths or years, according to discretion, and the nature of the Signe and place of 
heaven he is in; for movable Signes argue a short stay in the place; common ones, more long; 
fixed doe prolong and shew long time. 


The Resolution of 


Of the death of the Querent, or space of his owne life. 


If one is fearful of death, or feels himselfe ill, or would be resolved, Whether, according to 
naturall causes, he may live a yeer, two, three or more, the better to dispose of some matters 
concerning his owne private affaires, and shall demand such a Question of you, give the 
ascendant, his Lord and the Moon for his Significators, and see in what houses they are in, and 
how dignified essentially, unto whom they apply, or with what Planets associated: if the Lord of 
the Ist be joyned with any of the Fortunes, and commit his vertue unto him, and that Planet is 
well dignified and commit his disposition to no Planet, then see if that Fortune be Lord of the 
8th; for if he be not, then assuredly the Querent out-lives the year, or two or three, or time by him 
propounded; but if the Planet to whom the Lord of the ascendant is in Conjunction with, or 
commits his disposition unto, be Lord of the 8th, then whether he be a good or an ill Planet, he 
kils (for every Planet must doe his office,) and signifies, that the Querent shall dye within the 
compasse of time demanded; and this judgment you may averre with more constancy, if the 
Moon be then impedited, unlesse some other Planet be joyned with the Lord of the ascendant, 
who receives either him or the Moon, for then he shall not dye in that space of time enquired of 
by him. 


Consider if the Lord of the ascendant be joyned to an Infortune, who receives him not either by 
House or Exaltation, or by two of his lesser Dignities, and the Moon also at that time 
unfortunate, it signifies the Querent’s death. 


If in like manner you find the Lord of the 1st joyned to the Lord of the 8th, unlesse the Lord of 
the 8th receive him, and so notwithstanding, as that the Lord of the Ist receive not the Lord of 
the 8th, though he receive the Lord of the Ist; because if the Lord of the 8th receive the Lord of 
the Ist, and the Lord of the 1st the Lord of the 8th, whether Fortune or Infortune, you may justly 
feare the Querent’s death; but if the Lord of the 8th receive the Lord of the ascendant, so there be 
not mutuall Reception, it hinders not. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Having considered judiciously that the Querent shall not dye, behold when or in what time it wil 
be are the Lord of the ascendant is joyned to that Planet who receiveth him with a compleat 
Conjunction, untill that time and year or years signified by that Conjunction, the Querent shall be 
secure, and so may ascertaine himselfe, that at this time he shall not dye. 


But if you find just grounds in Art the Querent shal dye, behold when and at what time the Lord 
of the Ist is joyned to the Lord of the 8th, or to the abovesaid Infortune, who receives him not, 
but afflicts him, and is the interficient Planet; for when their perfect Conjunction is, whether by 
body or aspect, at that time he is like to dye. 


But if the Lord of the Ist is so disposed, or he is such a condition, as you conceive that by him 
alone, without other testimonies, you cannot sufficiently judge of his death or life, then doe you 
consider the Moon, and judge by her position, as you did of the Lord of the Ist: but as I related 
before, if the Lord of the 8th and the Lord of the Ist be joyned together and each receive other, or 
at leastwise, the Lord of the Ist receive the Lord of the 8th, it prenotes his death, as aforesaid: 
when the interficient Planet comes to the degrees wherein the two Significators were in 
Conjunction, or if they were in Square or Opposition aspect, then when the malevolent 
Intersector comes to the degree of the Zodiack wherein the Lord of the ascendant was at time of 
the Question; or when the unfortunate Anareta, transits the degree ascending, and there meets 
with the malevolent aspect of the Lord of the 6th, or when an Eclipse, or its opposite place fals to 
be either the degree ascending or the degree of the Signe wherein the Lord of the ascendant was, 
or of the Moon, if you judged by her, and not by the Lord of the ascendant. 


When, or about what time the Querent may dye? 
When the Question is absolute, and without limitation, and the Querent shall propound unto you, 


being an Astrologian, his Question in this manner of way, viz. When shall I dye, or how long 
may I live? In this demand, you are to behold the Lord of 


The Resolution of 


ascendant, the ascendant it selfe, and the Moon, the Lord of the 8th or infortunate Planet in the 
8th, and that Planet unto whom either the Lord of the Ist or the Moon is joyned by body or 
malevolent aspect, and you shall determine the death of the Querent according to the number or 
distance of degrees which are betwixt the Lord of the Ist and the Lord of the 8th, or of that 
Planet to whom either the Lord of the ascendant or Moon is joyned, for those number of degrees 
shall shew either moneths or years: If the Lord of the Ist be in Conjunction with the Lord of the 
8th in an angle, it notes so many years; for in these judgments, angles do not accelerate death, 
but shew that life and nature are strong, and a possibility of overcoming the malignity of the 
humour afflicting: if the abovesaid Conjunction be in a succedant house, it notes so many 
moneths; but note, if the Signe be fixed, it gives halfe years, halfe moneths: if in a cadent house, 
so many weeks: you must understand this Question with mature judgment, and well consider 
whether the Significators are extremely afflicted, or have sufficiently manifested that according 
to naturall causes, the Querent cannot live long, or that death is not farre from the Querent. 


If the Significators doe not presage death at present, then aquaint him, it’s possible, he may live 
so many yeers as there are degrees betwixt the Conjunction of the Lord of the ascendant and the 
Lord of the 8th, or of that Planet at time of the Question afflicting him. The Ancients have ever 
observed, that the Lord of the ascendant is more in this judgment to be considered then the 
Moon, and therefore his affliction or Conjunction with the Lord of the 8th, or Combustion with 
the Sun is especially worth consideration, and most to be feared; for naturally the Lord of the Ist 
doth signifie the life and body of the Querent, and not by accident. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be separated from the Lord of the 8th, or the Lord of the 8th from 
him, or from that Planet who did afflict him, it’s not then probable the Querent shall dye, in so 
many years as there are degrees betwixt them, viz. from that their separation: where observe, the 
Conjunction of the Moon with the Lord of the 8th, doth not much hurt, unlesse the Lord of the 
Ist be also joyned with him; for let the Moon be afflicted, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


yet if the Lord of the ascendant be strong, it’s no great matter; but if the Moon be well Fortified, 
and the Lord of the ascendant be weak and afflicted, the strength of the Moon afflicts nothing for 
the evasion of the Querent; for although in the Querent’s affaires she hath much to do, yet in this 
manner of judgment little, where life or death are in question. 


Whether the Man or Wife shall dye first? 


This doth more neerly depend upon the Nativity of either party, then upon an horary Question, 
and therefore I would advise in the resolution of this Question, that first the Artist doe demand of 
the Querent, his or her Age, or if they have it, the time of their Birth, and that he erect the Figure 
thereof, and see what possibility there was in the Radix, of the length or shortnesse of the 
Querent’s life if time give you leave, see if the Sun or Moon in the Radix, or the ascendant of the 
Nativity, doe near the time of the Question, come to any malignant direction, or whether the 
Querent be not in or neer a Climactericall year or years, which are the 7th, 14th, 21st, 28th, 35th, 
42nd, &c. or whether you find not maleficall transits of the infortunate Planets either by their 
near Conjunction to the degree of the Sun, Moon or ascendant in the Radix, or whether they cast 
not their Square or Opposition aspects to the degrees of the Sun, Moon or ascendant of the 
Radix, now at this instant time of the Question; this I would have well considered: and then erect 
your Figure according to the time of the day given, and behold who asks the question, and let the 
Lord of the ascendant be for him or her, the Lord of the 7th for the quesited party; see which of 
them is weakest, or most afflicted in the Figure, and whether the ascendant or 7th house hath any 
malevolent Planet posited therein, or whether there arise with the ascendant, or descend with the 
cusp of the 7th, and maleficall fixed Starres; for in this manner judgment they shew much: 
Behold whether the Lord of the 7th, or of the ascendant goe to combustion first, or to the 
affliction of any malignant Planet, or to the Lord of the 8th; for it is an assured rule, that if the 
Lord of the ascendant be 


The Resolution of 


most afflicted, or first goe to combustion, and the Ist house it selfe be unfortunated by the 
presence of an Infortune, that then the Querent dyeth first: and so judge for the Quesited, if the 
same misfortunes befall to the 7th house, and his Lord, &c. 


What manner of death the Querent shall day. 


in this manner of judgment observe the Lord of the 8th, if he be therein posited, or what Planet is 
nearest to the cusp of the house, and hath Dignities therein; for you must take signification of the 
quality of death from either of these, or from that Planet who afflicts the Lord of the ascendant, 
and have Dignities in the 8th: If the Planet signifying death is either Venus or Jupiter, you may 
assure the Querent, he or she shall dye a fair death: and observe what Diseases they or either of 
them in the Signe they are in doe signifie, and what part of mans body they represent in that 
Signe, and you may certifie the Querent, that the disease or infirmity he or she dye of, will be of 
the nature of the Planet, and in that part of the body they signifie in that Signe. Usually, good 
Planets in the 8th, a fair, gentle death; malevolent ones, either strong Feavers, or long continued 
Sicknesses, and much afflicting. 


CHAP. LXVIII. 


Whether the Portion of the Wife will be great, or easily 
obtained, or whether is the Woman enquired 
after rich or not. 


Herein vary your ascendant, and then the Question as well resolves the demand concerning the 
estate of a man as of a woman. The Querent is still signified by the Lord of the ascendant and Ist 
house, his substance and Estate by the 2nd house, Lord thereof, Planet or Planets posited in the 
house, and the Lord of Part of Fortune and place of heaven, and sign wherein it is found. 


That which is the occasion of this Question is, if a man propounded the Question, Whether the 
Woman he enquires after be 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


rich, &c. Behold in this judgement the Signe of the 8th house, the Lord thereof, the Planet 
posited therein. 


The Cusp of the 8th in the Termes of Jupiter or Venus give good hopes of Wealth, or Jupiter or 
Venus posited in that house; plenty of Wealth if they are essentially dignified, direct, and free 
from Combustion; not so much, if they or either of them be Retrograde, Combust, or slow in 
motion: for though in essentiall dignities and so qualified, they expresse a sufficient and large 
proportion, yet with some kinde of trouble it will come to the Querent. 


The Lord of the 8th in the 8th no wayes impedited, gives good hopes of some Inheritance or 
Land to fall to the Wife or woman, or by some Legacy, some Estate; the more certaine if either 
the Lord of the 4th in the Figure, or the Lord of the 10th and the Lord of the 8th be in any 
benevolent aspect out of Angles or succedant houses, or out of the 11th and 8th. Part of Fortune 
in the 8th and in Aquarius or Leo, or any of the houses of Jupiter or Venus, they casting their 
Trine or Sextile aspect to Part of Fortune: you need not feare but the estate of the quesited party 
is sufficient, and if the dispositor of Part of Fortune doe but cast his Sextile or Trine to it, or else 
is in a good aspect of Jupiter of Venus: these argue the Woman inquired after to be a good 
Fortune, and you are not to make doubt of his or her Estate. 


Saturn or Mars Peregrine in the 8th, either poore or little of what is promised will be obtained, or 
extreame contention about 
it. 


The Lord of the 8th Combust, slow performance, scarce ability in the Parents to performe what is 
promised. 


South Node in the 8th, no fortunate Planet being there, there’s cheating intended, or more will be 
promised then performed. 


Lord of the 8th in the 2nd, or in Trine or Sextile to the Lord of the 2nd, the Querent shall have 
what is promised, in Square with difficulty, in Opposition never, without much wrangling; if no 
reception hardly at all. Its impossible to give such generall Rules as will hold ever certaine, 
therefore I advise every Practicer to well weigh the Querent his Condition, and the possibility the 
Figure promises, and so frame his conjecture. 


The Resolution of 


CHAP. LXIX. 


If one be afraid of a thing, Whether he shall be in 
danger of the same or not. 


Behold the ascendant and his Lord, and the Moon; if you finde the Moon infortunate, or if the 
Lord of the ascendant be infortunate, and falling from an angle; or especially in the 12th and 
Moon with him; it signifies the same Fear is true, and certaine that there is cause for it, or that the 
great labour and griefe shall molest him, and that many things shall be demanded of him, or he 
charged with many matters not appertaining to him, or of which he is guilty. If the Lord of the 
ascendant doth ascend from the 12th into the 11th or 10th, or shall be joyned to Fortunes; it 
signifies the thing feared shall not appertaine to him, or he be molested thereby, or that he need 
not be afraid, nor shall the matter doe him ill, but he shall escape that feare. When the Lord of the 
ascendant shall be in one degree with Fortunes, no ill is towards the Querent (if the Fortunes unto 
which the Lord of the ascendant doth apply, or which apply unto him be in the mid heaven, and 
the Moon apply unto those Fortunes, and she be in an angle or elevated above him, it signifies he 
that is afraid shall easily be delivered from feare; nor hath he any grounds for 

it. 


[Substance.] 

The signifier of the question applying to infortunes, it is true; to a fortune, and not received of an 
infortune, it is false. Many have judged, that if the Moon be in the 8th, 6th or 12th, and apply to 
any Planet in a Cadent house, the Suspition is not true, or the report will hold long, but that it 
will be smothered and vanish to nothing: the Moon in Trine to Sun discovers all suddenly. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXX. 


Whether Man or Wife shall dye first? 





Judgment upon this Figure. 


For many weighty Reasons one desired me to consider whether himselfe or wife should dye first; 
Whereupon I erected the figure of heaven, as above placed. 


Finding the 7th house afflicted, which signifieth the Wife by the position of Saturn in Aries his 
Fall, and that Mars Lord of the 7th was cadent in Gemini and the 9th house, and disposed by 
Mercury Lord of the 6th from the 7th, and he Retrograde and in his Fall, and the Moon in 
Scorpio, but the 8th house from the 7th. These considerations moved me to inquire of the 
Querent, whether his Wife was not very sicke, and in a Consumption (for so it appeared unto me) 
and also infirmed (in Secretis.) For if you observe all those Significators which have relation 
unto her, 


The Resolution of 


are wholly unfortunate and out of their essentiall dignities. I inquired her age, her exact Nativity I 
could not obtaine, onely I understood she was now in her 42. yeer of age, viz. her Climactericall 
yeer, which is usually dangerous; and the more unto her, she meeting with an untoward Disease 
neer or in that time. 


I considered the 7th house which was her ascendant whereby I judged her Corporature to be 
small, or her Person incurvating, her visage long and leane, her complexion darke and pale, her 
conditiond very waspish, or she very forward, &c. which was confessed, and I afterwards found, 
Because Saturn sheweth long lingering Diseases, and Mercury Lord of the 6th house was 
Retrograde; I judged she would relaps out of one Disease into another, partly by her owne 
obstinatenesse, and partly by the errour of the Physician: By her owne wilfulnesse, because that 
the the Lord of her ascendant was also Lord of the 8th; and partly by neglect of the Physician, 
who was signified by Venus who was in Square with Saturn in Equinoctiall and Tropicall Signes 
and in Angles, arguing his or their small care of the miserable Gentlewoman: All things seriously 
considered, I concluded the Woman would dye first; for the Significator of the Man hath no 
manner of affliction, viz. Venus she being in her Hayne, and free from the least manner of 
misfortune, and so was the man from all infirmities. For the time when she should dye, I 
observed when Saturn and Mars came to an ill aspect; for Saturn did most of all represent her in 
person and condition; and I found that about the latter end of September following Mars came to 
an opposition of Saturn, Mars then being neer the place of the Moon at time of the Question, viz. 
in 2 degr. of Scorpio, and Saturn in 2 of Taurus, the Moon at that moment in the place of Mars, 
viz. in 20 degr. of Gemini or thereabouts. From thence I concluded, that it was probable she 
would dye or be in great danger of death about the latter end of September or beginning of 
October; and in truth she dyed the 8th of October, upon which day Mars and Mercury were in 
Conjunction in the 8th degree of Scorpio; the one in the Question being Lord of the ascendant, 
and the other of the 6th, the degree it selfe the very same of the Moon in the Question, and Moon 
to the 12. of Libra the opposite degree to her ascendant in the Question. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXI. 


A Woman of her Husband at Sea, if alive, where, when returne? 





[This question hath as much relation to the 9th as 8th house. | 


Mercury Lord of the ascendant doth personate the Querent, and as Mercury is in Conjunction 
with Moon and Saturn in Aries which doth signifie the Face, so was she extreamly disfigured 
therin by the smal-Pocks, had weak Eyes, &c. was full of griefe & sorrow for her Husband 
occasioned by Saturn his affliction of Mercury; she also had a lisping in her speech, and spake 
but ill; for usually Saturn afflicting Mercury in mute or bestiall Signes, causeth impediment 
speech. 


[Alive.] 

The Quesited was signified by Jupiter Lord of the 7th, who being posited in the 10th house, and 
lately separated from the Sextile of Venus now in the 9th, she being Lady of the 3rd, argued the 
man had been lately some voyage South-east; and because both Venus and Moon had been with 
Sextile of Venus, he being now no way afflicted, but swift in motion, made me judge the man 
was alive and in health: but as Mercury, who disposeth of Jupiter, is Lord of the 2nd, viz. the 8th 
from the 7th, and as the Moon is so exceedingly afflicted by Mercury and Saturn, I judged he had 
been in much danger and perill of his life, by trechery and cunning plots of his adversaries, and 
had suffered many afflictions in his absence; for Mercury is Lord of the 7th from 


The Resolution of 


his ascendant, and Saturn of the 12th from the 7th: besides, Jupiter is accidentally Fortified, but 
not essentially, and his Detriment, with Oculus Taurus a violent fixed Star, intimating, the man 
had endured many sudden violent chances. 


[Where. ] 

Finding Jupiter more Fortified then the Moon, she almost entring Taurus a Southerly Signe, and 
Jupiter in Gemini a Western Signe, and South quarter; I judged the man absent was in the South- 
west of England, in some Harbour, because Jupiter was Angular. 


[When return or hear of him.| 

The Moon separates from Saturn & doth apply unto the Conjunction of Mercury Significatrix of 
the Querent; an argument after much expectation & longing, the Woman should heare of him in 2 
or 3 dayes, because the distance of Moon from the body of Mercury is about 1 degree and no 
more, and the Sign movable, [so she did.] But as Mercury is in a movable Signe, and Moon is 
corrupted by him and Saturn, the report she heard of her Husband was false [for she heard he 
was in Town,] but it was not so. Considering that Mercury and Jupiter did hasten to a 
Conjunction in Gemini, Mercury being therein very potent, and that this Conjunction was to be 
the Sth day of May following; I judged from thence that about that time she would have certaine 
newes of her Husband, if happily he came not then home. The second week in May the Woman 
did heare certaine newes from her Husband, but he came not home till the second week in July, 
he had been severall Voyages in the West parts, was taken prisoner by the Kings Forces, and at 
time of the Question asked, was at Barnstable, &c. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXII. 


What manner of Death CANTERBURY should dye? 





It may appear to all indifferent minded men, the verity & worth of Astrologie by this Question, 
for there is not any amongst the wisest of men in this world could better have represented the 
person and condition of this old man his present state and condition, and the manner of his death, 
then this present Figure of heaven doth. 


Being a man of the Church, his ascendant is Capricorn, the cusp of the 9th house; Saturn is Lord 
of the Signe, now in Aries his fall; a long time Retrograde, and now posited in the 12th of the 
Figure, or 4th from his ascendant; so that the heavens represent him in condition of mind, of a 
violent spirit, turbulent and envious, a man involved in troubles, imprisioned, &c. Jupiter a 
generall Significator of Church-men, doth somewhat also represent his condition, being if that 
eminency he was of in our Commonwealth: Jupiter, as you see, is Retrograde, and with many 
fixed Starres of the nature of Mars and Moon; an argument he was deep laden with misfortunes, 
and vulgar Clamours at this present.. 


The Resolution of 


The Moon is Lady of the 4th in the Figure, but of the 8th as to his ascendant; she separates from 
Saturn, and applies to the Opposition of the Sun neer the cusp of the 8th house; Sun in a fiery 
Signe, applying to an Opposition of Mars, the Dispositor of the aged Bishop; Mars being in an 
Ayery Signe and humane, from hence I judged that he should not be hanged, but suffer a more 
noble kind of death, and that within the space of 6 or 7 weeks, or thereabouts; because the Moon 
wanted 7 degrees of the body of Mars. He was beheaded about the 10th of January following. 


I write not these things as that I rejoyced at his death; no, I doe not; for I ever honoured the man, 
and naturally loved him, though I never had speech or acquaintance with him: nor doe I write 
these lines without teares, considering the great incertainty of humane affaires: He was a liberall 
Moecenas to Oxford, and produced as good Manuscripts as any were in Europe to that 
University, whereby the Learned must acknowledge his bounty: let his imperfections be buried in 
silence, Mortuus est, & de mortuus nil nisi bonum. Yet I account him not a Martyr, as one Asse 
did; For by the Sentence of the greatest Court of England, viz. the Parliament, he was brought to 
his end. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXIII. 


If have the Portion promised? 





Saturn is here Significator of the Querent, Retrograde, and in the 12th house, as if the Querent 
had been in some despaire of it, [and so he confessed. | 


The Woman is signified by Jupiter and Moon; Jupiter in his Exaltation, and Moon in Leo, a fixed 
Signe argue the Woman to be well conceited of her self e, confident, yet vertuous and modest: 
the Moon her Significatrix neer the Sun, she had a scar neer her right eye, for the Moon signifies 
in Women the right Eye. 


That which is pertinent to the resolution of the thing demanded is this; That finding Venus in the 
8th house, which is the womans 2nd, and the Sun to be Lord thereof, in his own house, and that 
Moon did separate from the Conjunction of Sun, and transferred his vertue to Saturn, who is 
Lord of the ascendant and Dispositor of Part of Fortune, and also Lord of the Querent’s 2nd 
house, I did from hence cheer up the dull Querent, and assured him he had no cause to feare the 
non payment of his Wives Portion, but that it would really be performed, whatsoever was or had 
been promised; and that, to his further comfort, she would 


The Resolution of 


prove a chast vertuous woman, but somewhat proud; all this proved true, as I experimentally 
have it from the Querent’s owne Mouth. 


The ninth HOUSE, and those QUESTIONS 
properly belonging unto it. 


Long Journeys, Religion, Pilgrimage, 
Dreams, &c. 


CHAP. LXXIV. 


Of good or ill in questions concerning this House. 


If in this house good Planets have either government, or are in possession thereof, or aspect the 
same without the testimonies of the Infortunes, it signifieth good, or is an argument thereof in all 
questions concerning this house. 


Of a Voyage by Sea, and Success thereof. 


Look to the 9th house, if it be good and strong, and aspected of good Planets, or good Planets in 
the said house, especially if the Lord of the ascendant and the 10th be well affected, it is very 
good: but if thou findest Saturn, Mars or the South Node there, then is the way evill, if the Lord 
of the 9th be with an evill Planet, it is evill, and he shall not speed well in the way, or get any 
wealth by that Voyage: Mars in the 9th, :intimates danger by Theeves or Pyrates; Saturn 
threateneth losse of Goods, or sicknesse; the South Node doth import the same that Mars doth, 
but most part with cozenage and deceit. 


The substance of the Journey is from the 10th, because it is the 2nd from the 9th: Fortunes there, 
expect Wealth; Infortunes, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


losse: the 9th infortunate, many hardships in the Voyage; Fortunes there, a happy passage. 
Together with this, see to the Lord of the 8th, or 8th house; for if he or it be strong there is 
Wealth to be got; Saturn, Mars or South Node in that house, nothing to be had, or not worth 
labour. 


What wind you shall have. 


Behold the Lord of the ascendant, if he be with a good Planet or Planets, and they strong, and in 
friendly aspect, it signifieth good winds; but if with evill Planets, or they in cadent houses, the 
contrary; if the Significators be in Opposition out of fixed Signes, and neer violent fixed starres, 
the Traveller may expect impetuous stormes, sudden blasts, contrary winds often driving the 
Passenger this way, and sometimes that way; as also, that he shall await many dayes, weeks or 
moneths for a comfortable wind before he shall gaine it: Gentle gusts of wind are signified when 
the Significators are in Trine aspect out of Signes ayery, viz. Gemini, Libra or Aquarius. 


Of him that taketh a Journey, and the successe thereof. 


Behold what Planets are in the angles, if you find in the ascendant a good Fortune, judge then 
that he shall have good successe, before that he removeth from the place he is in, or in the 
beginning if his Journey; if that good Fortune be in the Mid-heaven, he shall have much 
happinesse in his Journey, and after his entring the Ship, or upon the way as he goeth on his 
Journey: but if the Fortune be in the 7th, he shall have content in the place whereunto he goeth: if 
that Planet which is the Fortune be in the 4th, it shall be at his returne, or when he shall come to 
his owne place or home back againe. 


If that Fortune be Jupiter, the benefit he expects, or the Means to advance him, shall come from 
or by meanes of a religious person, or Judge, or Gentleman, in quality and kind according to the 
power, quality and nature of the Lord of the house of that Fortune, or by a person of that 
description; as if it be the house of the Sun, it shall be by the King, a Magistrate, or some 


The Resolution of 


noble Person, or by a Solar man of noble disposition.. If Saturn be Significator, it shall consist in 
things and Commodities of his nature, or else in things of antiquity, or Ground, Corne or Tillage; 
or by meanes of an ancient man: describe Saturn exactly, and let the man apply to such a one in 
his Affaires. If Venus, it shall be as touching Women, Joy and Sport, or by meanes of Women, 
Friends, or in Linnen, Silks, Jewels, or pleasant things. If Mercury, it shall be by writing, or by 
wit and discretion, or merchandize, Accounts or Letters testimoniall, or by the Merchant. If it be 
the Moon, it shall be by Services or Masteries, much imployment by some Woman or Widdow, 
or Saylor, or by carrying Newes, or playing at Dice, Sports or Pastimes, Tables, or such like. 


Example. 


If the Fortune in the 10th house, is Venus, he shall have good, or make great benefit in his 
Journey, by dealing in such things as bring joy, or cause delight and pastime, by Jewels or Silks 
which are of the nature of Venus: If the Lord of that house be Saturn, and he be strong, say then 
of Saturn as in the preceding part, and so of the rest: If a Planet who is an Infortune be Lord of 
the 12th and he be Saturn, it is to be feared there shall happen unto him some sicknesse comming 
of a cold and dry cause, or by much trechery, but if Saturn be in a Signe Bestiall, it is to be 
feared, some ill fortune or mischance shall happen to the Traveller by meanes of some Four- 
footed Beast; if he be in a humane Sign, it may be by some deceitfull men; if that ill Fortune 
instead of Saturn be Mars, it is to feared he may incurre some sicknesse that is of a hot nature, or 
fall into the hands of Theeves, and shall have feare of himselfe touching hurt to his body, &c. and 
so of the rest. 


Of the short or slow returne of him that taketh a Journey. 


Behold the Signifier of the Journey, if that Planet be swift in Course, Occidential, and Moon and 
he in movable Signes, it signifieth his Journey to be short, and not much tarrying from home, or 
a quick, speedy passage, yet with trouble and pain; but if he be swift, (viz. the Significator) in 
motion and Orientall, 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


it shall be quick, short, and without any labour or much trouble: when the Lord of the ascendant 
doth apply unto the Lord of the house of Journeys, or when the Lord of the Journey applies to the 
Lord of the ascendant, or any Planet carryeth light of one to the other, or when the Lord of the 
house of Journeys is in the ascendant, or when the Lord of the 7th is in the ascendant, or the Lord 
of the ascendant in the 7th; all these doe signifie short returne, or good speed according to the 
length of the Voyage: But if none of these be, or the greater part of the said Significators be in 
angles, especially in fixed Signes, it signifieth either destruction of his Journey, or else slow, or 
to be a great while absent: If a Fortune be in the house of Journeys, it signifieth health of body; a 
good Fortune in the Mid-heaven signifieth mirth and jollity, or gladnesse in his journey, or that 
he shall have good company: in the 7th and 4th, it signifieth prosperity, and a good end of the 
Journey or Voyage. 


If the Lord of the house of Journeys be in a fixed Signe, it signifieth continuance and long 
tarrying: in a common Signe, it signifieth he shall change his mind from his first intended 
thoughts, or remove from one journey to another. 


If the Moon in questions of Journeys, be in the 6th, or in Opposition to the Lord of the 6th, it 
shewes sicknesse to him that travels, and impediments in his occasions, and that his businesse 
shall be for the most part feeble, weak and slackly handled, his endeavours and designes shall be 
much crossed; yet if the Lord of the ascendant be fortunate, or in the house of trust, or not 
opposite to the same, it signifieth successe and prosperity, and the accomplishing of his 
businesse, though with many difficulties and obstructions. 


When he shall returne that is gone a long Journey.. 


[You must ever have regard to the proper Significator. ] 

Behold the Lord of the ascendant, if you find him in the ascendant or mid-heaven, or giving his 
power to another Planet being in any of those places, it signifieth that he shall returne and is 
thinking of it; but if the Lord of the Ist be in the 7th, or in an angle of the earth, it signifies, that 
his returne is 


The Resolution of 


prolonged, and that as yet he is not gone far from the place he went unto, nor hath he yet any 
desire thereunto. 


If the Almuten of the Ist be in the 9th or 3rd from the ascendant, applying to a Planet in the 
ascendant, it signifieth he is in his journey homewards: the same also doth the Lord of the 
ascendant signifie if he be in the 8th or 2nd, applying to any Planet in the 10th; yet 
notwithstanding, if the Lord of the ascendant be cadent, and doe not apply to any Planet in an 
angle, or behold the ascendant, it is a token of tarrying. 


But if at any time the Lord of the ascendant or the Moon doe apply unto a Planet Retrograde, or 
the Lord of the ascendant himselfe be Retrograde, (viz. the Significator of the absent) and doe 
behold the ascendant, it is a token he is comming: but is the Lord of the ascendant be infortunate, 
it doth signifie some let or hinderance which makes him to tarry, or that he cannot come: If you 
find not in the house of the ascendant any of those things which I have said, behold the Moon, 
and if she doe give her power or light to the Lord of the ascendant, being in the ascendant or neer 
the ascendant, it signifies that he shall come shortly or intends it: also, if the Moon be in the 7th, 
9th or 3rd, applying to the Lord of the ascendant, it signifies that he commeth: If the Moon be 
separate from a Planet which is in the left side of the ascendant (that is, under the earth) and 
applyeth to another Planet on the right hand of the ascendant, (that is, above the earth) it doth 
signifie that he commeth. 


If the Moon be on the right hand of the ascendant, and apply to a Planet in the mid-heaven, it 
signifieth that he commeth, yet with slownesse, for the Moon being in the right hand of the 
ascendant, doth show so much; which if she had been in the left hand, she had shewed his 
comming sooner. If the Lord of the house of the Moon be infortunate, it signifies tarrying, and let 
or hinderance in comming home. 


You must ever consider for whom the question is asked, for if he that demands the question ask 
for a Sonne, then from the Sth house look for the Significator: If for a Brother, then to the 3rd: If 
for a Father, the 4th, &c. Behold the Fortunes and Infortunes carefully placed in those places, 
and by them and their position, judge the estate of him that is absent in his 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


journey, both for health and hinderance, for according to the estate or place of the Fortunes or 
Infortunes in the Figure, and their dignities or imbecillities, so you may judge. 


[Still you must keep to the Lord of your proper ascendant.] 

When the Lord of the ascendant is in the ascendant, or in the 2nd, entring or arising towards the 
ascendant, or if he be Retrograde, or the Planet which was the signifier of the Journey be 
Retrograde, or the Lord of the ascendant apply to the Lord of the 10th, or the Lord of the mid- 
heaven be in the ascendant, or the Moon received of the Lord of the 10th, or the Lord of the 
ascendant received of him; all these doe signifie that he is absent is coming, and that he 
retumneth speedily and shortly. 


The Planet from whom the Lord of the ascendant of the question is separated, is the Signifier of 
the state and condition in which he lately was, and of those actions which are past; and the Planet 
unto whom the Lord of the ascendant doth apply, is the Signifier of the state he is now in; and the 
Planet to whom he applyes after him, is the Signifier of the state of him unto whom he shall 
come, or intends to come. 


If a question be asked for one that is in a journey, and you find his Significator going out of one 
Signe and entring into another, judge that he went out of the place he was in, and is entred 
another, or taken another journey in hand; and behold in which of those Signes he was stronger, 
more fortunate, or better received and so judge his successe the better, and corresponding thereto. 


Note that Combustion in a question of one that is absent is ill, for that signifieth captivity, 
imprisionment, or some great let: 

if the Combustion be neer the house of death, or the Sun Lord of the house of Death, it signifies 
death except God doe miraculously deliver him.. 


If in the question of him that is absent, you find in the ascendant or mid-heaven Mercury or the 
Moon, judge that Letters shall come from him, or some Newes very shortly, for Mercury is the 
Significator of Letters or Newes. 


The Resolution of 


If you would know whether the Newes or Letters which are to come be good or ill, look from 
whom Mercury and Moon are separate; if the separation be from a Fortune, it notes good newes 
and joyfull; but if from ill Fortunes, judge the contrary. 


If a Question be asked of a Letter, whether it be true or not, behold Mercury, if he be in a 
movable Signe, beholding Saturn or Mars, say it is a lye; if in a fixed Signe, judge it is true; in a 
common Signe, part true and part false. 


The cause of a Journey, and the successe thereof. 


Behold if the Moon apply to the Sun, he goeth to Kings or States, or in service of such men, viz. 
of such as are able to maintaine him, &c. 

If Moon apply to Saturn, he is directed by old men, or men of gravity and yeers.. 

If Moon apply to Jupiter, Religious persons or Gentlemen doe imploy him. 

If Moon apply to Mars, men of Warre, Captaines, or such like are the cause.. 

If to Venus, Women-kind, or desire to purchase such things as Women love. 

If to Mercury, Merchants, Schollers, or he travels to see variety of Countryes, and to learne the 
languages. 

If Moon her selfe signifie the cause, it seems he is hired, or that he is publikely imployed. 


The cause is usually required from the house wherein the Lord of the 9th is; or if a Planet therein, 
see what house he is Lord of; the Lord of the 9th in the ascendant, he goes of his owne accord; 
the Lord of the 9th in the 2nd, for game; the Lord of the 9th in the 3rd, purposely to travell, &c. 


Successe thereof. 


Behold the four angles, if a fortunate Planet be in the ascendant, the beginning of his journey 
shall be fortunate; if the mid-heaven be fortunate, the rest of his journey shall prove in like 
manner; if the 7th, it shall also happen well when he is arrived to the place he intends, or is at his 
journeys end: If 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Fortunes be in the 4th, all shall happen well in his returne homeward, & e contra: a most happy 
journey is intended. 


Also for the successe of a journey, behold the Lord of the ascendant, the 9th house and the 
Moon, and if they be all well affected, it sheweth a fortunate Journey. 


Length thereof. 


If the Lord of the 9th be in the ascendant, or the Lord of the ascendant in the 9th, it hasteneth the 
journey; the Lord of the ascendant in the 7th, idem.; the Significators on cadent houses, or in 
movable Signes, or the angles movable, idem.: But if the angles be fixed, and the Significators 
posited therein, it prolongeth the journey: the Lord of the 9th in the ascendant, hasteneth the 
journey, and being fortunate therein, fortunateth the same Voyage, the Significators and Moon 
slow in motion, a tedious Journey. 


CHAP. LXXV. 


If one shall profit by his Knowledge, be it in what kind 
it will; Chymistry, Chyrurgery, &c. 
or if he be perfect. 


Give the Querent the ascendant, his Lord and the Moon; the 9th house, Planet therein posited, 
and the Lord thereof for the Science endeavoured to be attained: See if the Lord of the 9th be 
fortunate or not, Orientall or Occidentall, cadent from an angle, in an angle or succedant house, 
and whether he behold the Lord of the ascendant or not with Sextile or Trine; if he be a Fortune 
and behold the Lord of the Ist, the man hath good knowledge in him, and what is reported of the 
man is true, and he will doe good by his knowledge; and the more if it be with Reception: if the 
aspect be by Square or Opposition, the man knowes much, but shall doe no good thereby; if an 
Infortune aspect either the Lord of the 9th or Ist, the man hath wearied himself e, and will doe, 
but to no purpose, for he shall never attain the perfection of the knowledge he desires, 


The Resolution of 


Of Science, Cunning or Wisdome in a man, 
whether it be true or not. 


You must give the ascendant to him of whom it is asked, and the 9th house to the Science; and if 
there be Fortunes in the 9th house, or the Lord of the 9th fortunate, and behold the Lord of the 
ascendant, judge there is Science in that man: But if in the 9th house there be Infortunes, or the 
Lord of the 9th infortunate, and behold not the Lord of the ascendant, it doth signifie the 
contrary, and that there is none, or little knowledge in him. 


Behold in what condition the Moon is, with the Lord of the 9th; if they both apply to Fortunes, it 
signifieth that there is knowledge in the man; but if the apply to Infortunes, it signifies the 
contrary. 


In the 9th house, the Lord thereof be infortunate, nor behold the Lord of the ascendant, it 
signifies no knowledge in him, or such as by which he will never doe himselfe good, if it concern 
the Querent: if another body, then the party Quesited. 


Of many Persons absent or travelling, 
in what Condition they are. 


It happens sometimes that four or five or more travelling together in a company beyond Seas, or 
are at places farre distant, and the Querent is willing to heare newes of every one of them: In this 
case you must desire the Querent to set downe all their names in order, one after another; then 
observe the Moon her applications first of all, and that Planets to whom she applies; shall signifie 
the state and condition of the first man in order as he is writ downe; observe in what condition 
that Planet is in, how posited, how dignified, how and by whom or what Planst aspected, from 
whom he last separated, unto whom he next applies; accordingly judge of the state and condition, 
health or welfare of the first Person inquired after. Having performed that worke, then behold the 
Moon her second application, be it good or ill, and to what Planet, the second Man in order shall 
partake in his affaires according to the well or ill being of 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Planet to whom she doth the second time apply; and so in order, doe for all the rest remaining, 
ever considereing the Significators Retrogradations, Directions, Combustions of the Planets; and 
in this manner run them all over by turnes againe, if the Men enquired after be more then seven. 
In the same order you may doe by a Man inquiring after many Women, & e contra, &c. 


To what part of Heaven the Traveller 
had best direct his Journey. 


Although we have in some measure handled this judgement in the Chapter of the 1st house, yet I 
shall againe briefly mention some further judgements herein, pertinently belonging to this House. 
If therefore the Querent who is desirious to Travell or take a Journey, shall make this demand, To 
what part of the World is it best for me to Travell? Doe you herein consider in what quarter of the 
Figure the fortunate Planets are posited, and where most fortified, you may safely direct the 
Querent to travell, sojourn or direct his voyage to those parts, as if the fortunate Planet promising 
happinesse unto him be in the East Quadrant, then direct him Eastward, if in the South Quarter 
Southward, in the West Westward, in the North Northward, and observe where the most or 
greatest number of fortunate Planets be placed, to those parts its best to Travell; and as you will 
elect that part of Heaven for best where the Fortunes are, so disswade from travelling or 
journying to those parts where the Infortunes are.. In the number of Infortunes; put the South 
Node; in all Journeys have a speciall care of the 2nd and 8th Houses; for an Infortunate Planet in 
the 8th portends or signifies little game, or small successe in the Countrey the Traveller is going 
unto; but a malevolent Planet in the 2nd, intends no great successe in the Countrey, wherein after 
the voyage is performed the Traveller intends to settle him selfe.. Hence it is, that when elections 
of times are made for the happinesse of a party in the Countrey he is going unto, that we alwayes 
put a good Planet in the 8th house. But if we expect to live happily after our returne, then we 
ever set forth or begin our Journey when a good and fortunate 


The Resolution of 


Planet is in the 2nd. Beware of Cauda in the 2nd when you returne, or in the 8th when you set 
forward.. 


CHAP. LXXVI. 


If an idle covetous Priest upon his Question propounded 
shall Obt.aine a good Parsonage, yea or no? 


Saith the Clergy are as Covetous and vicious as other men, I give them leave to make their 
demand as well as others, provided alwayes, it be not to hinder themselves from enjoying a lusty 
Benefice, or impeach them in preferment; if therefore the Lord of the ascendant who is 
Significator if the Minister (it matters not whether he be Protestant, Presbyter or Papist) that 
would have a Church-living, or other Ecclesiasticall preferment) or the Moon or both be joyned 
to the Lord of the 9thm who signifies the thing sought after, viz. a Benefice: for if the Lord of the 
9th be in the 9th, or behold the house, it argues the Clerke or Priest shall obtaine the Benefice 
desired, but with Labour and industry, and his owne very much paines taking, which I confesse 
they doe willingly; but if neither the Moon or Lord of the ascendant be joyned to the Lord of the 
9th, or he with them; see if either the Moon or Lord of the ascendant be in the 9th, for that argues 
the attaining of the thing sought after: if he be not Retrograde, or otherwise unfortunate or 
Combust, or in Square aspect of an infortune without reception, for then it argues a destruction of 
the matter after it seems to be in a good forwardnesse, or neer accomplishing; but if the Lord of 
the 9th be in the Ist, whether the Lord of the Ist behold him or the Moon or not, in what 
condition soever the disposition of the Lord of the ascendant or the Moon are in, or if the Lord of 
the 9" be the lighter Planet, and apply to the Lord of the Ist, it’s a pregnant testimony of 
procuring the thing sought after without much seeking on the Querent’s behalf. 


The Lord of the ascendant in Trine or Sextile to Sun or Jupiter, and either of them in the 
ascendant, argues the acquisition of the Benefice or Preferment. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


The Conjunction of the Lord of the Ist and 9th, or their aspects, with Reception, gives the 
preferment without bribing, freely, perhaps upon a desert or merit; for some of that Tribe are 
black Swans: If the aspect be by Square, it comes not so lightly; yet if Reception be, it comes at 
length, perhaps a fish with 20d. is presented to the Patron. 


After this, see if any Planet transferre the light of the Lord of the 9th to the Lord of the 
ascendant, the Benefice is obtained by some interloping person, unlesse the more ponderous 
Planet to whom the Translator doth afford vertue, commit that influence to some other Planet, 
and that Planet have no signification in the Question, for such an action intimates destruction of 
the matter, after it is hoped to be neer prefecting: If the Lord of the ascendant hasten to the 
Conjunction of the Lord of the 9th, and meet with no obstructive aspect before, it’s not then to be 
doubted but the Parson obtaines his preferment, but not without solicitation: many Planets 
Significators in this or the like Question, either many Competitors in the thing, or many 
contentions and much labour to obtain it. 


Lord of the ascendant in Conjunction with an Infortune, and he not Lord of the 9th, or in 
Reception with him, or not committing his disposition to any Planet who receives the Lord of the 
Ist or the Moon, the matter will not be performed: If that Infortune commit his vertue to any 
Fortune, who is strong in the Figure, the thing will be perfected; for the Conjunction of the 
Infortunes without Reception, performes nothing; with Reception, they performe with difficulty: 
a Planet signifying the effecting of anything, being posited in an angle; hastens the matter, in a 
succedant, it retards the thing; in a cadent, quite destroyes the matter, or suddenly, beyond 
expectation, when all men despair, by some secret trick, perfects it; but this is very rare. 


If any malevolent Planet aspect the Lord of the ascendant or the Moon with Square or 
Opposition, without Reception, the Querent seems much troubled, is displeased with the manner 
of prosecuting the matter, and beleeves he is either negligently or knavishly dealt withall, by 
such as endeavour to negotiate in the matter: if the Lord of the Ist and 9th both of them commit 
their disposition to any Planet, by whatsoever aspect, who is not 


The Resolution of 


impedited, or becomes Retrograde before he goe out of the Signe he is in, it argues performance 
of the businesse: The Moon well dignified, shewes many Friends: if the Lord of the 9th be 
joyned to the Lord of the 4th, or the Lord of the 4th apply to the Lord of the 9th, without much 
labour the matter will be effected: But to know whether the Benefice be a lusty one or not, or 
worth acceptance,(a thing considerable;) consider the 10th house, the Lord thereof, and Planet or 
Planets therein places; Planets well dignified and angular, shew hopes, and are sure testimonies 
of a good thumping Benefice. 


And now I wonder why some wooden Clergy should so preach against me and Astrlogy; I never 
either countenancing or maintaining one hereticall position, or perswading any person to attaine 
a Benefice by Symony, or professing more then Astrology, of which these men are as ignorant 
(the most of them as Asses;) witnes Astrologo-Mastix, a most absurd Coxcomb, to meddle with 
what he knowes not. 


CHAP. LXXVII. 
Of Dreames, whether they signifie any thing or not. 


BONATUS in judging this Question farre exceeds HALY, in many others he is not so judicious; 
when therefore any shall demand, What the effect of his Dreames shall be? Behold the 9th house, 
and give it to signifie the DREAME, if any of the seven Planets be therein posited, he shall have 
signification of the DREAME: If Saturn be therein, he dreamed of some things that frightened or 
terrified him, & it was some inordinate matter, not really naturall, as it is beleeved by the 
Querent: if South Node be in the 9th, he beheld somewhat in his Dream more terrible, and which 
more affrighted him; he was afraid some prosecuted him, and would have killed him, and that he 
had much adoe to escape: Behold in what house Capricorn and Aquarius fall, they being the 
houses of Saturn, for from some matter signified by either of those houses shall this horrour 
proceed, or disturbance by dreame: If either of those Signes ascend, the feare proceeds from 
himselfe; if 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


they be on the cusp of the 2nd, Money or personall Estate occasioned that Dreade; if Capricorn 
or Aquarius be on the cusp of the 3rd, the matter proceeded from some occasion concerning his 
Kindred or Brethern, or ill Neighbours, or bad reports: you must run all the houses in order in the 
same nature, as I have formerly both in the 2nd and 3rd house aquainted you, &c. and from 
thence find the occasion.. 


If you find no Planets in the 9th, consider the 10th and see if any Planet be therein, and judge as 
formerly by the 9th house; for whatsoever Planet is in the 10th, the Significattion of the Dreame 
hath signification thereof, either for good or evill: If no Planet be in the 10th, see if any be in the 
ascendant, he shall signifie the matter of the Dreame; if no Planet be in the ascendant, behold if 
any be in the 7th, he shall then manifest the Dreame; if no Planet be there, see to the 4th, for a 
Planet therein shall demonstrate the quality and effects of the Dreame; if no Planet be in the 4th, 
see to the 3rd; if none be there, see to the 2nd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 11th or 12th, all which have 
signification of the vanity of the Dreame, and that it hath no effects to follow it: The very true 
way of judging whether Dreames, how terrible soever, have or shall have any influence upon the 
Querent, is by observing whether the Lord of the 9th, or any Planet posited in the 9th, doth 
behold the Lord of the ascendant with Square or Opposition, for then assuredly the Querent shall 
receive prejudice thereby in one kind or other; usually crosses or afflictions to his person: But if 
the Lord of the 9th afflict the Lord of the 2nd, he receives from prejudice by one or other in point 
of Estate, &c. and so doe in all the other houses, (consideratis considerandis.) 


A good Planet in the 9th, no ill shall happen by the Dreame; a good Planet in the ascendant 
signifies the same; or the Lord of the ascendant in Trine of Sun, Jupiter or Venus argues the 
same, the Infortunes the contrary. I hold it vaine to be more large upon this Discourse. 


The Resolution of 


CHAP. LXXVIII. 


Terrible Dreames. 





Jupiter and Saturn are Lords of the 9th accidentally posited in the 12th casting a Square aspect to 
the cuspe of the 9th: their position in the 12th according to the best Authors, intimates the vanity 
of the Dream, and rather a Person or fancy oppressed with various perturbations and worldly 
matters, then any other matter: But according to our judgment, Mars being the onely Planet in an 
Angle, shall best expresse the cause of the Dreame, and whether it will tend to good or evill; if 
we observe what house Mars is Lord of, we shall finde he is Lord of the ascendant and disposer 
of Part of Fortune, it being angular, I therefore acquainted him that the occasion of his Dreames 
might be construed two wayes; one, by his too great care of his Estate and Fortune intrusted out, 
and now desperate; because Mars was in Opposition to Part of Fortune; and that his minde ran so 
much thereupon, that his Fancy was disturbed, so that he could not enjoy that quiet and rest by 
night which nature affordeth all Creatures, In the next place, because Saturn is Lord of the 10th, 
which signifies Office, Command, &c.. and did afflict Jupiter Lord of the 9th, or did Impedite 
him at least; I told him I doubted he had lost the benefit of some good Place in the Common- 
wealth, and that now he was solicitous how to live in that credit he formerly did: howsoever, 
because Jupiter and Mars 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


were in Sextile, I judged no matter or perill to his person should come thereby, onely some 
dammage in Estate; and this really proved true. 


CHAP. LXXIX. 


If he should obtaine the Parsonage desired. 


8 24° 77) 


D 2A o> 


ae oo ¥: 





Judgement upon this Figure. 


The Querent is signified by the signe ascending, Saturn therein posited, and Mars Lord of the 
ascendant in Gemini, an Ayery Signe, and Moon in Aquarius, of the same triplicity. The 9th 


The Resolution of 


house and Jupiter Lord thereof are Significators of the Benefice. 

In the first place I finde no Conjunction betwixt Jupiter Lord of the 9th, and Mars Lord of 
the ascendant, or is the Moon in any aspect with Jupiter. 

I finde neither Mars Lord of the ascendant, or Moon posited in the 9th. 

There is no weighty Planet that translates or collects the light of Jupiter (who signifies the 
preferment) unto Mars. 

There is no reception betwixt Jupiter and Mars. 

Saturn is impedited in the ascendant, and by his presence infortunates the question, 
causing the Querent to despaire in the obtaining it. 

The Moon separates from a Trine of Mats, and applies to an opposition of Mercury, Lord 
of the 3rd: which intimated in my judgment, that some neighbour of the Querents, wither 
with letter, words, or crosse information would wholly destroy the Querents hopes, and 
that Mercuriall men, viz. Schollars, or Divines would be his enemies: and because I 
found Venus in Libra and 7th house, opposing the ascendant; I judged some Women 
would inform against him, or prejudice him in his suit, 


By all that hath been collected, I dehorted him from proceeding after the matter any 
further, as not to be obtained; but the Parson being covetous would proceed further in the 
matter; and so he did, and when he thought to have the matter absolutely on his side; 
Behold, a scurvey Letter revealing some manifest truths concerning a Female, dasht the 
good Mans hopes, &c. exit. The Querent was Saturn and Mars exactly, had wit and 
volubility of tongue; and as Mercury and the Moon are in Opposition, he under the Earth, 
she in the 12th, he could never discover which of his Neighbours it was that thus affronted 
him, nor would he aske me; if he had, it must have been Saturn Lord of the 12th, viz. 
some Farmer, or dealer in Cattle, living North-east from him about fifteene Furlongs; a 
covetous repining Miser, Sickly, &c. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXX.. 


If Presberty shall stand? 





Judgment upon the Figure abovesaid. 


The angles of the Figure are common, and not fixed, but the Signe of the 9th, from which at 
present judgment must be naturally deduced, is Taurus, a fixed, stable Signe, and from Saturn in 
the Terms of Jupiter, who is therein posited, a slow and ponderous Planet; a generall Significator 
in Religion, Religious Rites and Ceremonies is now standing to Direction; and is departing out of 


The Resolution of 


his Exaltation, having been a long time Retrograde therein, and now at present impedited by 
mars: after his transit out of Cancer, he enters the fixed Sign of Leo, and into the Terms of 
Saturn; but in the first six degrees thereof he meets with severall obnoxious fixed Starres, and 
thence passes into the Termes of Mercury, who is now in the Signe Pisces his Fall; yet angular, 
entred into the Decanate of Mars. 


We find Venus Lady of the 9th house in Aries her Detriment, and in the 8th of the Figure, but 
12th house from her own viz. Taurus, now the cusp of the 9th: and if you observe Venus well, she 
hath 21 degrees to passe through the Signe of Aries, and these degrees all in the 8th house, ere 
she get into Taurus where she may possible fix, or at least would; but before she fully gets out of 
this movable Signe Aries, she first hath occurse to the sinister Square of Jupiter, (The Gentry of 
England will oppose it.) then of Mars, (Mars Lord of the ascendant of England, the generality or 
whole Kingdome will distaste it.) all three in the Termes of Saturn: this might have produced 
some materiall effects, if Saturn had been essentially Fortified where he is, or if Presbytery had 
any relation to Monkery, or if it had been the first beginning of a Religious Order. 


Let us take all the Planets as posited, and there’s not a Planet fixed except Saturn, not any 
essentially dignified but Jupiter, and he impedited by Mars; the Moon is entring Via Combusta, 
Mars is in his Fall, Mercury in his, Venus in her Detriment.. 


We have the Moon separating from Venus in the 8th, then going to be Vacua Cursus afterwards 
she Squares with Mars, (The Presbytery will struggle hard, and wrangle stoutly.) then with 
Jupiter: From those configurations we shall naturally frame our judgment, not positive or 
affirmative, but conjecturall, onely out of a desire that posterity may see there’s some verity in 
Astrology, and the Clergies just cause to carp at the Art if I lye: and we hope herein, that we shall 
no more offend in writing the Astrall intention of the heavenly bodyes, (deduced from reasons in 
Art) then those who daily (pleno ore) and publickly deliver amongst hundreds their conceptions, 
though repugnant to the opinion of very many now alive. The posture of Saturn in the 9th who is 
naturally of a severe, surly, rigid and harsh temper, may argue, the Presbytery shall be too strict, 
sullen and dogged for the English Constitutions, little gentle or compliant with the natures of the 
generality, and that there shall spring up amongst 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


themselves many strange and fearfull opinions and distractions even concerning this very 
Presbytery now mentioned, that they shall grow excessive covetous, contentious, and desirous of 
more then belongs unto them, worldly, envious and malicious one against another; that amongst 
them some Juniors represented by Venus, shall be but of light judgment, wave and decline the 
strictnesse of this Discipline; that the Elder, represented by Saturn, shall not be respected by 
reason of their too much rigidnesse, or shall their Orthodox opinions be consented unto. 


Saturn is Peregrine, Occidentall, &c. fortified by no essentiall Dignity, or supported with the 
favourable aspect of either of the Fortunes; there’s Reception betwixt the Moon and him, but no 
aspect: Mercury Lord of the 10th signifying Authority, is separated and separateth apace from 
Saturn, as if the Gentry, or supreamest people of this Kingdome, doe in part decline from the 
severity of the too too austere Clergy or Presbytery, mistrusting a Thraldome rather then a 
Freedome to ensue hereupon. 


[The Souldiery will distaste it.] 

If you would know who shall most afflict, or who shall begin the dance, or most of all oppose it? 
Saturn represents the Countryman, for he afflicting the house properly signifying Presbytery 
shewes the cause; this in few words expresses, it will not stand or continue (status quo:) Remove 
Saturn, Viz. Covetousnes, Rigidnes, Maliciousnesse, &c. then there may be more hopes that it 
might, but yet it will not stand (ita in fatis.) 


Three whole yeers from hence shall not passe, ore Authority it selfe, or some divine Providence 
informe our understanding with a way in Discipline or Government, either more neer to the 
former purity of the primitive times, or more beloved of the whole Kingdome of England, or 
Authority shall in this space of time moderate many things now stifly desired: For some time we 
shall not discover what shall be established, but all shall be even as when there was no King in 
Israel, a confusion among us shall yet a while romaine: the Souldery then, or some men of fiery 
Spirits wil arise, and keep back their Contribution from the Clergy, and will deny obedience or 
submission to this thing we call Presbytery; it will then come to be handled by the Magistrate, 
and taken into consideration by the grand Authority of the 


The Resolution of 


Kingdome; yea, and by the plurality of the Clergy-men of England, or men of very sound 
judgments, it will be contradicted, disputed against, disapproved; and these shall make it 
manifest, this very Presbytery now maintained, is not the same the Commonwealth of England 
will entertaine, as a standing rule, for it to live under, or be governed by. 


From what I doe find by this Figure, I conclude, that Presbytery shall not stand here in England 
(status quo) without refining and amending, and demolishing many scrupulous matters urged at 
present by the Clergy; for if we consider Jupiter as Lord of the 4th, we find the Moon, in plaine 
language, (after a little being voyd of course) run hastily to the Square of Mars and Jupiter; 
intimating, the Commonalty will defraud the expectation of the Clergy, and so strongly oppose 
them, that the end hereof shall wholly delude the expectation of the Clergy. 


CHAP. LXXXI. 


If attaine the Philosopher’s Stone? 





An ingenious ma with much seriousnes propounded the Question above, viz. Whether he should 
obtain the Philosopher’s Stone? or, that Elixar by which such wonders are preformed? that there 
is such a thing in being I verily believe; that it may be attained I am confident: but as it is a 
blessing beyond all blessings upon 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


earth, so I hold, that it is given but to very few, and to those few rather by revelation of the good 
Angels of God, then the proper industry of man. This Question must admit of this manner of 
proposall; Whether the Knowledge of the querent is so able, or he so cunning, as to produce to 
effect by his Art what he desires? 


The Querent is signified by the ascendant, and Mercury Lord thereof; his knowledge by Mars 
Lord of the 9th, and the aspects which may be cast unto him from the other Planets. 


I find Mars Lord of the Querent’s Science in a cadent house, but in his owne Terme and Face. 


Mars is in a Square aspect both of Mercury and Saturn, and they and he in fixed Signes, they in 
the Terms of Saturn, falling into the 9th house; I find Mercury lately Retrograde, and in Square 
or Mars, now moving slowly in his direct motion, and applying againe to a second Square of 
Mars: From hence I judged, the Querent had formerly spent some time in the search of this 
admirable Jewell the Elixar, but in vaine and to no purpose; his second application by Square 
happening not long after, while Mercury was in Gemini, and in his owne Terms, intimated a 
stronger desire, greater hopes and resolution to endeavour once more the attaining of the 
Philosopher’s Stone, but I advised the Querent to decline his further progresse upon that subject; 
and in regard of the former reasons, advised him how incapable he was, and the improbability of 
the thing he intended, according to naturall causes, and advised him to desist: I also said, that he 
erred in his materials or composition, working upon things terrene or of too grosse and heavy a 
substance; part of which judgment I collected by Saturn his Square unto Mars, part by the 
affliction of Mercury, his intellective part by the proximity of Saturn, both cohabiting in an 
earthly Signe, for in any operation where Mercury is corrupted, there the fancy or imaginative 
part is imbecill; but where the Lord of the Work it selfe is unfortunate (as here Mars Lord of the 
9th is,) there the ground work or matter it selfe of the principall part of the operation is defective, 
as here it was: and that the Gentleman should think I spoke not in vaine, I acquainted him, he had 
more necessity to cure himselfe of a Consumption, he was entring into (nay entred) then of 
advancing his paines further in the scrutiny of this Laborinth. 


The Resolution of 


For seeing Mercury Lord of the Ascendant, and Saturn in Conjunction in Taurus, Saturn being 
Lord of the 6th, of evill influence naturally, and finding Mars afflicting Mercury out of the 12th, 
and Mercury not receded from, but applying to a further evill Square of Mars, no Fortune 
interjecting his benevolent aspect betwixt Mercury and the two Infortunes, but that he stood 
single of himselfe without any assistance, and thereby was incapable of resisting their malevolent 
influence, I advised to have a care of his health speedily, &c. 





THE TENTH HOUSE, and those QUESTIONS 
properly belonging unto it. 


CHAP. LXXXII. 


Of Government, Office, Dignity, Preferment, or any place of 
Command or Trust, whether attainable or not? 


The Ist house and his Lord are given to the Querent, the 10th house and his Lord shall signifie 
the Place, Office, Preferment, Command, Honour, &c. enquired after; if the Lord of the 
ascendant and the Moon be both joyned to the Sun, or to the Lord of the 10th, or either of them, 
and the Lord of the 10th behold the 10th, or be personally therein, the Querent shall then have 
the thing sought after, but not Gratis; nay, he must bestir himselfe, and use all the friends he can 
about it: if none of the Significators be joyned to the Lord of the 10th,, see if the Lord of the Ist 
or Moon be in the 10th, he shall then attain what he desires, if that Planet be not impedited: The 
Lord of the 10th in the Ist, so he be a lighter Planet then the Lord of the 

Ist, though no aspect be betwixt them, yet shall he attain the Place or Office desired; but with 
more ease and lesse labour when the Lord of the 10th is in the ascendant, and is either going to 
Conjunction , Sextile or Trine aspect with the Lord of the Ist. 


If the Lord of the 10th be joyned to Jupiter or Venus by any 


all manner of QUESTIONS 


aspect, and the Lord of the 10th be in the ascendant, it argues obtaining of the Office with ease 
and facility: If the Lord of the 10th be joyned to Mars or Saturn, and they or either of them in the 
ascendant, in their owne house or exaltation, and themselves Orientall and Direct, and not one 
opposite to another, this doth argue obtaining the Preferment, though with much importunity. 


If the Lord of the 10th receive the Lord of the Ist or the Moon by any reception, or in any house, 
the matter will be effected with much content and profit. 


If any Planet transferre the vertue of the Lord of the Ist to the Lord of the 10th, then the thing 
will be perfected, or Office obtained by meanes of another that labours in the matter, and not by 
himselfe: In this case, it’s best that he who would acquire the Dignity, observe if he know such a 
man as the Planet describes, that in probability is active, or of neer acquaintance to the person of 
whom he would have the Office, and let him imploy such a one in the businesse, for by his 
meanes it’s very like he may attaine the place desires. 


If the Lord of the 10th doe not desire the Conjunction of the Lord of the Ist, but the Lord of the 
ascendant his, and doth really come to Conjunction of the Lord of the 10th, without the 
abscission of any other Planet before Conjunction, the Office will be obtained, but the Querent 
must labour hard for it. 


No Conjunction being betwixt the Lord of the 1st and 10th, or either of them joyned to a Fortune, 
but to a malevolent, and this malevolent joyned to another malevolent, and this malevolent 
joyned to a Fortune, and this Fortune joyned to the Lord of the 10th; if the Conjunction of the Ist 
Infortune be with the Lord of the Ist, or the last Planet is joyned to the Lord of the Ist, or if their 
first Conjunction be with the Lord of the 10th, yet it imports acquisition of the Dignity, but with 
infinite perplexities, and solicitation of many and severall persons: you may easily distinguish 
the persons of those to be imployed, by the Planets before mentioned, and the houses they are 
Lords of; those Planets that are in Sextile or Trine to the Lord of the 10th are great with him: Let 
application or meanes be made to such, for those men may be great Friends to the Querent. 


The Resolution of 


Behold if any of the preceding Planets be in the Ist, or in the 10th; if he be a Fortune, it notes 
obtaining the Dignity, whether he be in Reception or not: if the Planet so posited do receive the 
Moon or Lord of the Ist, the matter will be perfected, but without Reception, not. 


If the 10th house be in the house or exaltation of that evill Planet, and he placed in that house, he 
performes the business, whether he receive the Lord of the ascendant or the Moon: In every 
Question you must observe, that what Planet soever is Significator of any thing, if he be in an 
angle, he hastens to effect the matter; in a succedant, the matter goes on slowly; in a cadent 
house, the matter goes backward, yet at last is performed. 


See if an ill Planet behold the Lord of the ascendant or the Moon, with Square or Opposition, 
without Reception, for unlesse he then commit his disposition to another, he hinders and disturbs 
the Querent by meanes of that person who is to solicite the cause or businesse, and it’s probable 
they will fall out about it: if a Trifle or Sextile be betwixt them, he will not be angry with him, 
although he performe not what he expects. 


If the Lord of the ascendant and 10th commit their disposition to any Planet by any aspect, with 
or with no Reception, whether the Receiver be a Fortune or Infortune (so that he be not 
Retrograde, Combust or Cadent, or goe out of that Signe wherein he is before the Conjunction of 
the Lord of the 1st or 10th, the Querent shall achieve the preferment expected. 


It’s generally concluded by all Astrologers, that if the Lord of the ascendant and the Lord of the 
10th be joyned together, and the Moon apply to either of them, the matter will be effected, but 
best of all when Moon separates from the Lord of the 10th, and applyes to the Lord of the 
ascendant. 


Behold if the Lord of the Ist be joyned to the Lord of the 4th, or the Lord of the 4th to the Lord 
of the ascendant, it argues their perfecting of the thing: but if the Lord of the ascendant be joyned 
to the Lord of the 4th, and the Lord of the 4th be joyned to the Lord of the 10th, the matter shall 
be effected, but with so much strugling and delaying that it was absolutely despaired ever to be 
effected, yet at last it was perfected.. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


If one shall continue in the Office or Command he is in. 


Behold herein the Lord of the Ist and the 10th, and see if they be in any aspect, or neer to a 
corporall conjunction; and see if the more ponderous Planet of the two, that is, the receiver of the 
Disposition be in any angle but the 4th; say then, he shall not be removed from his Office untill 
his appointed time comes out: but if that Receiver of the Disposition be under the earth, or in the 
descending part of heaven, it imports he shall depart from his Office, or for a time loose it; but 
shall returne thither againe more confirmed in his Place: and if the receiver of the Disposition be 
received againe, then he returnes with more honour then before, and also very speedily. 


You may judge in the same manner if the Lord of the ascendant be joyned to the Lord of the 3rd 
or 9th, or to a Planet therein, and after separation from him, be joyned to a Planet in any Angle 
except the 4th. 


But if they are separated from each other, then he returnes not againe to his government, but shall 
depart from it. 


If the Lord of the Ist or 10th, or Moon commit their disposition to any Planet in an Angle (except 
he be in the 4th) and that Planet be slow in motion, he shall not be removed from his Office or 
place of trust, untill that Receiver become Retrograde or approach to Combustion, or goe out of 
the Signe wherein he is; for much about that time will be removed, If the Lord of the Ist be 
joyned to any Planet who is in a Sign opposite to the exaltation of the Planet who is in the Sign 
opposite to the exaltation of the Planet who now disposes him, the Officer will then carry 
himselfe ill in his place, and it may be feared he shall dye for it (but this is to be understood 
according to the quality of the place he hath.) If the Lord of the opposite house to the exaltation 
of the Lord of the 1st be joyned unto him; the men of that Kingdome, or people of that City or 
Countrey shall report ill of him, shall produce false witnesses against him; the ignorant shall 
beleeve those false reports, nor will they be easily beaten into any other opinion. 


The Resolution of 


But if the Lord of the 10th be joyned to the Lord of the opposite house of his exaltation; the 
Countrey where he governs or governed, shall suffer great detriment, viz. by the said Governour. 


If the Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 10th, and he in the 10th, the Governour or Officer shall 
not be put from his Office or Dignity. 


If the Lord of the Ist or the Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 10th or either of them, and he 
more weighty then either of them, and be in a good place of heaven, viz. either in the 10th, 11th, 
or 5th free from all manner of impediments, though he behold not the 10th, yet withstanding if 
the Querent be then in any Command or Office, he shall be transferred to some other place of 
trust or Command: But if he behold the 10th house, then he shall continue where he 1s. If the 
Lord of the ascendant and the Moon be in Angles, and the Angles moveable Signes and Moon 
not joyned to the Lord of the exaltation of that Sign she is then in, it argues he shall goe from this 
present Command or Government: or if the Moon be joyned to any Planet who is not in any of 
his essential dignities, though he be received, unlesse it be from a fortune by Sextile or Trine, and 
that fortune in the 3rd or 9th, the Querent shall leave his Government or Office. In like manner 
the same thing will happen unto him, if either the Lord of the 4th or the Moon be in the 4th, and 
the Sign of the 4th be Aries, Cancer, Libra, Capricorn, the judgement will hold more certaine if 
the Moon be then joyned to the Lord of the 4th, and he Peregrine: and againe, the same will 
come to passe, if the Moon be joyned to a Planet, who is in the opposition to the Sign of the 
exaltation or house of her selfe; or if she be in Capricorn, or if the Moon be voyd of course. 


CHAP. LXXXIII. 


Whether a King expulsed his Kingdome, or an Officer 
removed from his government shall returne 
to his Kingdome or Office 


In these sad times of our Civill Distempers, many of the Gentry have propounded such Queries; 
Whether they should return and 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


enjoy once more their former estates, &c. that Question fals not to be judged by this house; the 
matter of this Question is of greater concernment; For Kings and Princes are now in this Chapter 
upon the Stage; and all manner of principall men cast out from former honours or preferments. 


The Ist house in the Question and Lord thereof, are for the Querent, be he King, or other Officer, 
&c. Lord, Marquesse, Duke or Gentleman.. 


Doe you well observe if the Lord of the 1st be in Conjunction with the Lord of the 10th, and see 
if the more ponderous of them who receives the disposition of the more light Planet behold the 
10th house, then the King, Gentleman or Officer, shall returne and have power, or rule in the 
Kingdome or place he formerly had, and from whence at present he is suspended. 


If that receiver of the disposition of the other significator do not aspect the 10th house, then 
observe the Moon, a generall Significatrix, and see if she be joyned to any Planet who is placed 
in the Ist or 10th, that signifies his returning or restoring: see if the Moon be in Aries, Cancer, 
Libra, Capricorn, he returnes the sooner: But if the Lord of the 10th be so joyned to a Planet in 
the 10th, it signifies the returne of a King to his Kingdome, or of one outed from his Office, to 
his place or command againe. 


If the Lord of the 10th be more light then the Lord of the 4th, and be separated from him, these 
argue the same: If the Lord of the 10th be more light then the Lord of the Ist, and be joyned unto 
him, he shall returne and continue; so also, if the Moon be joyned to the Lord of the 10th, and 
she behold the 10th house, unlesse she commit her disposition to a peregrine Planet under the 
earth: if the Lord of the Ist be received of a Planet not impedited, he returnes: if not received, no 
returne. 


The Moon joyned to a Planet in the 9th, signifies the King so expulsed (Or hath little desire to 
returne.) recedes from his Kingdome, unlesse the Planet be a Fortune: if the Planet to whom the 
Moon is joyned be a Fortune, and be in Aries, Taurus, Leo, Libra, Scorpio, Capricorn, Aquarius, 
the forlorne King or dejected Officer returnes: if the Planet to whom the Moon is joyned, be in 
Gemini, Virgo, Sagittartus or Pisces, the King obtains Soveraignty in another place, or the 
abjected a Command or Office in some other Country. 


The Resolution of 


If you find the Lord of the 10th and the Moon impedited in any angle, by the corporall 
Conjunction of any Infortune, it imports that neither the distressed King, or expulsed Governour, 
or removed Officer, shall returne againe to their former Dignity, Rule or Command. 


CHAP. LXXXIV. 
Of the Profession, Magistery or Trade any one is capable of. 


Country people many times have not the time of their childrens Nativities, yet being desirious to 
know what profession such or such a Sonne is fittest for, they may repair to the Astrologian for 
satisfaction herein: Upon the time of their demanding the Question, erect your Figure, and 
therein consider the ascendant and his Lord, the Lord of the 10th and 10th house, and especially 
the places of Mars and Venus; for these Planets are the Significators of Magistery, Trade or 
Profession: take which of the two you find most powerfull, and see in what Signe he is, if he be 
in Aries, consider the four angles, and whether you find a Planet in either of them, and if that 
Planet be in a fiery Signe, or of the nature of Aries, you may say, the Boy will prove a good Cart- 
maker, Coach-maker, Shepheard, Grasier or Drover to deale in Cattle, a good Groom, or Master 
of Horse, or Farrier, succesfull to deale in four-footed Beasts, or a good Butcher, Brick-maker, 
Smith, &c. but if Mars have any dignity in the place of the Significator, or the Sun, he will prove 
excellent in any Profession where fire is used, or of its nature: if the Significator be in his 
Exaltation, it’s pity the Child should be of any servile Trade, as aforesaid, he may doe better in 
serving the King, some Nobleman or Gentleman: After this manner consider in all those Signes 
which represent the shape of four-footed Cattle, according to the Angles, Aries, Taurus, Leo, 
Sagittarius, Capricorn, for these five signifying Fowle, or such like; but if no Planet be therein, 
then they import any thing of the nature of water . 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


But to the purpose, observe if the Significator of ones Profession be in Taurus, then Husbandry 
may be best for him, or planting Trees, Gardening, buying and selling Corne, or grazing Cattle, 
dealing in Oxen, Cowes, Sheep, Hogs, or he may be of such a Trade as hath affinity in Womens 
matters, or Huswifry, he would prove a good Soap-maker, a Fuller of Cloth, a Whitster, &c. 


If the Significator be in Gemini, he will make a Scrivener, Clerk, Arithmatician, a Baily to gather 
Rents, a Geometrician or Surveyor, Astronomer, Astrologer, Painter, &c. 


If the Significator be in Leo, he will make a good Serving-man, or to be of any Trade that useth 
fire or hot things, a good Hunts-man, a good Leech for Cowes or Cattle, a good Rider or Horse- 
courser, or Coach-man, or a Smith, Watch-maker, Glassemaker, 


If the Significator be in Virgo, he will make a good Secretary to a King or Nobleman, a School- 
master, an Accountant, a Stationer, or Printer, he will be an excellent Politian, a good Astrologer, 
and of a divining Soule. 


If the Significator be in Libra, he will be a good Poet, a good Orator, a Song-man or Musitian, a 
Silkman or Linen-Draper, a good Pedagogue, or fit to redeem Captives. 


If the principall Significator be in Scorpio, he may prove a good Chyrurgion, Apothecary or 
Physitian, a Brasier or Founder, a Brewer, Vintener, Water-man or Maltster. 


If the Significator be in Sagittarius, he will make an excellent man to buy and sell Cattle, to study 
Chymistry, or to make a Church-man, or he may be a good Cook or Baker. 


If the Significator be in Capricorn, he will prove a good Chandler, Victualler, Farrier, Cow-leech, 
Jeweller, Farmer, dealer in Wool, Lead or Country-commodities, a good Husband-man. 


If the Significator be in Aquarius, he may be an excellent Ship carpenter; and if any Planet out of 
the watry Signe aspect him, he may prove an excellent Saylor, or Master of a Ship, a Trimmer or 
Painter of Ships, a good industrious Merchant. 


If the Significator be in Pisces, he may be a Jester, Singer, a Gamester, a Brewer or Fish-monger; 
but for the most part in such like cases, the Genius is dull, and the child proves a moor Sot. 


The Resolution of 
CHAP. LXXXV. 


If Prince RUPERT should get honour by our Warres, or worst 
the Earle of ESSEX? What should become of him? 





Resolution of this Figure. 


This Question fals not under the notion of vulgar rules, or must the Astrologian expect particular 
Rules to governe his Fancy in every Question; it was well said, Ate & a Scientia, for I doe daily 
resolve such Questions as come not into the vulgar Rules of Guido or Haly; and yet I was never 
to seek a sufficient reason in Art, whereby to give a good and satisfactory answer to the 
Proponent, &c. as many hundreds in this Kingdome well know, &c.. He that propounded the 
Questions was a very great wel-willer to 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


the Parliament, and involved himselfe and Fortune amongst us, therefore the ascendant and Lord 
thereof shall signifie the Querent; but in regard Prince RUPERT is a noble Man, or person of 
eminency, he is signified by the 10th house and Lord thereof; the Signe is Scorpio, the Lord 
thereof Mars: I must confesse, at first finding the Moon in Cancer, to cast her Trine Sinister to 
the cusp of the 10th; I judged, the person of the man would be in no great danger, and that many 
vulgar people, and some of better quality, would much honour him, and he find great respect 
amongst them, and have a special care of his owne person: and verily Jupiter doth also cast his 
Trine Dexter to the cusp of the 10th house, whereby I judged, that we should not destroy his 
person, for the heavens by this Figure intimated the contrary: 

The very truth is, I was twenty four hours studying the resolution of this Question, for much may 
be said in behalfe of the Prince, and the hopes might be expected from him; at last I came to this 
resolution, that he should gain no honour by this War, because neither of the Luminaries were in 
the 10th house, or in perfect aspect with his Significator, but at last fall into the hatred and malice 
of all or many, by his owne perversnesse and folly, and in the end should depart without either 
honour, love or friendship, but should not be killed: The Lord of the 10th in his Detriment, argue 
his depraved Fancy; and being in a fixed Signe, shewes his obstinatenesse, self-opposition, 
conceitednesse and continuance in his erronious judgment, for let all the Planets assist in a 
Question concerning Warre or Souldiery, if Mars himselfe, who is Significator thereof, be 
unfortunate, or not strongly supported by the Luminaries, it’s as good as nothing, the party shall 
be preserved, but doe no glorious work or action in War, though he be never so valiant. 


If he should worst the Earle of ESSEX? 


ESSEX is here signified by Venus, because she is Lady of Taurus, the opposite house to the Prince’s; we find Venus 
in Aquarius, in the Terms of Saturn, and the Lord of the Ascendant; in Reception with Saturn, for 
as she receives him in her Exaltation, so doth he her in him Joy and Terme: the Moon transferres 
the 


The Resolution of 


influence of Jupiter to Saturn, by a forcible and strong aspect, viz. a Trine; Venus is in Square of 
Mars, but separated; as if not long before there had been some fight or warre betwixt them, (for 
you must understand we are not upon poynt of warre;) [and so there had:] For Edge-hill fight 
was above a moneth before, wherein Essex had the better; and this I prove because he kept the 
ground where the Battle was fought, when both the King and Prince Rupert left the Field. I know 
Posterity will beleeve me, sith I write now as an Artist, and upon a subject which must be left to 
Posterity: This I know by the testimony of many of the Kings owne Officer’s who have 
confessed as much unto me &c. But let it suffice, I positively affirmed, Rupert should never 
pervaile against the valiant Essex, &c. nor did he. 


What should become of him? 


His Significator, viz. Mars, being peregrine, and in the 3rd, I said, it should come to passe, he 
should be at our disposing, and that we should at last have him in our owne custody, and doe 
what we list with him: this I judged, because the gentle Planet Venus, Essex Significator, did 
dispose of Rupert: an errour in part I confesse it was, yet not much to be blamed, for (in totidem 
verbis) it was very neer truth, for in 1646, he was besieged in Oxford, and after surrender 
thereof, having unadvisedly repaired to Oatlands, contrary to Agreement and Covenant, he was 
then at the mercy of the Parliament, and in their mercy: but they of that house looking on him 
rather as an improvident young man, then any worthy of their displeasure or taking notice of, let 
him depart with his owne proper fate, heavy enough for him to beare; and so he escaped. So that 
the generall fate of this Kingdome, overcame my private opinion upon Prince Rupert. However, I 
am glad he escaped so, being questionlesse a man of able parts, but unfortunate, not in himselfe, 
but in the fate of his Family. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXXV. 


If his MAJESTY should procure Forces out of Ireland to 
harme the Parliament? 


If the QUEEN, then in the North, would advance with her Army? If she would prosper? When 
She and his Majesty should meet? 





His Majestie is here signified by Moon in Cancer in the 10th house, who increasing in light, 
elevated and posited in her owne house, voyd of all infelicity, except slownesse in motion, did 
manifest at the time of the erecting of this Figure, his Majesty to be in an able condition, as 
indeed he was. 


In this Judgment we find Sun Lord of the 11th (which house signifies assistance or aide in this 
manner of Judgment) posited in the 7th, in his Exaltation, and applying to the cusp of the 11th 
with a Trine aspect, but wants 6 degrees of being partill; forasmuch as the Moon being in her 
owne house, and Sun so well fortified, I did judge his Majesty should have ayde of Commanders 
out of Ireland (for Sun represents Commanders) and men, or common men, besides; because 
both Sun and Moon are friendly unto him: that they should harme us, I judged because Sun Lord 
of that assistance, was in the 7th, in direct Opposition to the ascendant, which representes the 
Parliament and their party: but because the Sun is so neer South Node, and beholds the cusp of 
the 10th with a Square Sinister, I did in the end lesse fear them, and judged they should produce 
much scandall, to his Majesty and his Party, and that they would cause many ill and 


The Resolution of 


heavy reports to fall upon his Majesty by their meanes: I also then judged, that his Majesty was 
likely to improve his Forces, and augment them for some certaine time, but that it should not 
continue very long, for that neither the Sun or Moon were fixed. The truth is, he had Irish Forces 
come over, which much hardened the hearts of the English against him, but time cut them off, 
&c. as we doe all well know, at the Siege of Namptwich, by valiant FAIRFAX. 


Her Majesties Signifatrix is Saturn Lord of the 4th, for that is the 7th from the 10th, removing 
out of one Signe into another: Saturn being a ponderous Planet, made me more confident her 
Majesty would move forwards with her Army, with intention to meet his Majesty, which I said 
she should do about 3 or 4 moneths from the time of the Figure, because the Moon wanted 3 or 4 
degrees of the Trine of Saturn, I intimated a great desire in his Majesty to see her, because his 
Significator applyed, The truth is, she met him about the 14. of July 1643. in Warwick-shire. I 
judged that she would not prosper but decline, because Saturn her Significatrix was going into 
Aries his Fall, and that Jupiter, viz. good Fortune, was separated, and did separate from Saturn. 
Besides, I observed that Mars made haste to a Square of Saturn in Cancer, as if our Souldiery 
would quite destroy and bring to nothing her Army; and that she would be crossed at or neer the 
time of that aspect, which was the 11. April, when about Nottingham she lost some Forces, and 
more had, but that we had ever either some knaves or fools in our Armies. 


CHAP. LXXXVI. 
If attaine the Preferment desires? 


At the same time within 4 or 5 minutes thereof, a Gentleman desired to know if he should 
obtaine an Office or place he looked after. 


The ascendant and Venus are for the Querent, the 10th house for the Office or place of 
perferment he expects. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Finding the Moon placed in the 10th, which is in the house of the thing looked after, viz. 
Preferment, it was one argument the Querent should have it. 


In the next place, the Moon applyed to a Trine of Saturn, who hath Exaltation in the ascendant, 
and who receives Venus, and is received of her againe. 


Besides, the Moon applying to Saturn, who is Lord of the 4th, argues that in the end he should 
obtaine the Office: but because Sun was in the 7th house in Opposition to the ascendant , and 
with South Node, and was Lord of the 11th, I judged he did employ as a Friend, a Solar man, 
who was false, and did rather envy them affect him. I concluded for the reasons above-named, 
that with some difficulty he should obtaine the Dignity, notwithstanding the opposition a 
pretended Friend did make; and so it came to passe within lesse three weeks, and he then 
discovered that his Friend was false, who had a great scarre in his Face, was not of bright or 
yellow Haire, but of a blackish dark colour, occasioned by Sun his neernesse to South Node: the 
separation of Moon from a Sqaure of Mercury, argued, he had delivered many Petitions about it, 
but hitherto without successe. 


The ELEVEN HOUSE, and those QUESTIONS 
properly belongong unto it. 


It is the House of Friends, Hope, 
Substance or Riches of Kings. 


CHAP. LXXXVII. 


Of good or ill questions concerning this House. 


If the Lord of this house be strong, fortunate, and well aspected of the Lord of the ascendant, it 
foresheweth the obtaining of the 


The Resolution of 


thing at present hoped for; as also, love and concord of Friends and Acquaintance, if the 
Question be thereof. 


Ifaman shall have the thing hoped for? 


Behold if there be any good aspect between the Lord of the ascendant and the 11th, or Reception 
or translation of light, or that the Lord of the 11th in the ascendant: all or any of these gives hope 
of obtaining the same. If there be none of those, behold Moon, and if she be not qualified with 
the Lord of the 11th, aforesaid, judge the contrary, 


Another Judgment concerning the former Question. 


When any one asketh for a thing he hopes to have of his Prince, Lord, Master or Noble-man, as 
sone Dignity, &c. behold if the Lord of the 11th house doe apply unto the Lord of the ascendant, 
or the Lord of the ascendant to the Lord of the 11th, say then he shall have the thing hoped for; 
and if the aspect be by Trine or Sextile, he shall obtaine the same with great ease and speed: 

but if the aspect be with Square or Opposition, he shall get it with much labor and tediousnesse; 
yes, although there be Reception of Significators. 


If you find the Lord of the 11th in an angle received, judge the thing shall come to passe as he 
would wish.. 


If you find the Receiver of the disposition of the Moon in a common Signe, judge he shall have 
but part of the thing hoped for: If the same Receiver be in a movable Signe, he shall onely have 
the name, or a probability of having thereof, or else very little of it: but if the same Receiver be 
in a fixed Signe, he shall have the thing whole and compleat: but if the Receiver of the Moon be 
infortunate, the matter shall receive damage or hurt, after that he hath the same, or is in 
possession thereof. 


If you find the Receiver of the Moon received, he shall likewise obtaine the same, and more then 
he looked for: if you find the Lord of the ascendant received, he shall obtaine whatsoever he 
hoped for: this must be understood in things feasible and possible. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. LXXXVIII. 
Of the agreeing of Friends. 


If one aske, If he shall joyne, and be at Concord and Unity with his Friend, or not? behold the 
Lord of the ascendant and the Moon, if you find them applying to the Lord of the 11th house, say 
they shall both joyne and agree together; if the application be by Sextile or Trine they shall agree 
and joyne together with respect, desire, joy and love: but if the application be by Square or 
Opposition, in their joyning there shall be brawling and strife, and the one shall be irksome to the 
other; and note, that the application which is by Opposition, is worse then that which is by 
Square. 


Note, if any one aske for a thing secretly, saying, Look I pray you for me, If I shall obtaine the 
thing I hope for, or not: consider if you find the Lord of the ascendant and the Moon applying to 
Fortunes, and in angles or Succedants, then he shall obtaine it, otherwise not, But if the Querent 
shall manifest the thing and name it, then you must behold the thing in its owne proper place 
pertaining to the same House, and so judge of the hopes or not hopes thereof, 


Of Love betwixt two. 


If it be asked of the love of two, viz. If the one doe love the other or not? behold the Lord of the 
11th. 7th and 3rd, and if the Lords of these houses doe behold the Lord of the ascendant with a 
Sextile or Trine aspect they love one another: but if the aspect be by Square of Opposition, they 
love not, or but teeth outward; chiefly if one of them be Lord of the 12th house; if neither of 
them shall have aspect thither, viz. to the 12th house or Lord thereof, the love of the two persons 
shall be the more firme and strong: if all three be there, viz. either in the 11th, 7th, or 3rd, or doe 
behold each other out of those houses, their love shall be the stronger, especially if the aspect be 
in fixed Signes. 





The Resolution of 


Of the TWELFTH HOUSE, and those QUESTIONS 
which properly appertain unto it. 


Viz. Of Imprisionment, great Cattle, 
Witchery, private Enemies, Labour, 
banished Men, &c. 


CHAP. LXXXIX. 


Of Secret Enemies, not named. 


If a Question be asked, concerning Enemies, and none named, see to the Lord of the 12th; but if 
any be named, then to the 7th house and the Lord thereof; diligently considering their 
applications to and with the Lord of the ascendant, and by what aspect, and out of what houses; 
for if the Lord of the 12th behold the Lord of the ascendant with Square or Opposition, out of the 
8th, 6th or 12th, or out of those houses which have a Square aspect to the ascendant, or no aspect 
at all, then there is some that privately and secretly wish him ill, and doe him mischiefe, or some 
secret enemy unto him. 


To know some Secret Enemy who he is. 


If any man demand the state of a secret Enemy, behold the Lord of the 12th house, and how he is 
affected, and whether he be with good or evill Planets, and behold the ascendant or Lord thereof, 
for if he be in the 6th, or joyned to the Lord thereof, it shewes the secret Enemy is afflicted with 
some secret Disease or Malady; as also, if the Lord of the 6th be in the 12th: but if he, viz. Lord 
of the 12th, be with the Lord of the 10th, he is in favour 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


with the King, or is a man of good quality, or lives with some man of quality, and it is not good 
for the Querent to meddle with him, especially if at such time he behold the Lord of the 
ascendant with Square or Opposition: but if the Lord of the 12th be in the 4th or 8th, or with the 
Lord thereof, judge him sickly, or neer to dying, or even pining and repining. Consider and judge 
with discretion in such like cases, according to former Directions. 





CHAP. XC. 


Any man committed to Prison, whether he shall 
be soone Delivered? 


[You must know your ascendant exactly, and what relation the party enquired of hath to the 
Querent, &c. | 

Behold the Moon, if she be swift or slow of course: if she be swift, it shewes short tarrying in 
prison; the contrary if she be slow of course: if she give her strength to a Planet in the 3rd house 
or 9th, this shewes he shall soon come forth of prison; if she give power to the Lord of the 9th or 
3rd, and be not in one of the angles, idem: and as you judge by the Moon so judge by the Lord of 
the ascendant. 


You shall also note, that the Quarters of Heaven in the Figure, are of great strength and force; for 
the Significators in Quarters feminine, doe signifie a swift going out, the other more slow: so 
also common Signes shew a time betwixt both; for is the Significator be in one of them, it 
signifies he shall be imprisioned againe. 


If you find the Lords of the angles in angles, he shall not come out of prison; and so much the 
worse, if the Lord of the ascendant be in the 4th, or that he give power to the Lord of the 12th, or 
the Lord of the 12th to the Lord of the ascendant; and yet worse, if the Lord of the ascendant 
give power to a Planet being in an angle; which if he be an ill Planet, it’s so much worse; if it be 
the Lord of the 8th house, he shall dye in prison: If the Moon give power to the Lord of the 
ascendant, it’s an evill Signe; and the worse, if a Planet being in an angle, and slow in motion; if 
he be swift, it diminisheth part of the evill, and shortneth the time. 


The Resolution of 


Every Planet that is Retrograde, sheweth slownesse: If the Lord of the ascendant be Combust, he 
shall never come out; or if he be not then received of the Sun, he shall dye in prison. 


Of the Imprisoned. 


Moon and Mercury in movable Signes, aspecting a Fortune, or Mercury in aspect of a Fortune, 
notes enlargement: this is when Mercury is Lord of the ascendant. 


Jupiter in the ascendant, or Mars or Moon at time if Arrest, or Venus in the ascendant with the 
Moon, or Mercury with Jupiter, aspecting the Moon, or Moon applying to Jupiter or Venus notes 
enlargement. 


The Dispositor of Moon in aspect with a Fortune; any of these notes he shall be delivered in a 
short and convenient time. 


If a Question be asked for a Captive or Prisioner. 


Behold the Lord of the ascendant, and if he be separated from the Lord of the 4th house, or the 
Lord of the 4th house from him, it signifies he shall quickly goe out of prison: if the Lord of the 
ascendant in separating himselfe from the Lord of the 4th doe apply unto a Fortune, and he 
himselfe remove from an angle, it is a more sure and certaine signe that he shall escape and come 
forth of prison; when the Lord of the ascendant shall be in Cadents from the Angles, it is likewise 
a signe of escape. 


If the Lord of the ascendant doe escape himselfe from the Sun, or if the Moon shall be existent 
under the Beames, it signifies escape and that especially if he be in the King’s Prison. 


If at any time any of the ill Signs, viz. fixed, be ascending at the house of Imprisonment, or when 
the Question is taken for the Prisoner, or the Lord of the ascendant or Moon be unfortunate in 
any of these Signes Taurus, Leo, Aquarius, Pisces, it signifies long time of imprisonment, or in 
danger thereof by quarrelling: If the same Infortune be Saturn it signifies great Tortures, Irons, 
and grievous punishments, amongst us it notes wants, hard measure, small or no mercy, 
sicknesse: If an Infortune be in the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


two latter Signes, it signifies long endurance in prison, but shortest time if in Pisces. If the Lord 
of the ascendant be cadent from his House or his Exaltation, and Moon in Aquarius, it signifies 
long imprisionment: The Lord of the ascendant or the Moon in the 8th, doe signifie the same. If 
Mercury be with any of the Infortunes, he addeth evill and misery to the Incarcerated, and an ill 
end to the Prisoner. 


To be short, there can be nothing better to be wished for the Prisoner, then if the Moon be in her 
wane, descending unto her Septentrionall part, and applying unto Fortunes, and the ascendant 
and his Lord fortunate. 


Note also, that Venus is more to be wished for the Prisoner then Jupiter, and delivereth sooner 
out of Prison; especially if she be joyned in signification with the Moon or Mercury: If the Moon 
be with Saturn, and Jupiter behold them with a Square, and Mars with a Trine, it signifies that 
after long imprisonment and misery, he shall break prison and escape. 


CHAP. XCI. 
Of a Captive or Slave. 


Behold the 6th house or 12th, and if any Planet be therein, he is the Signifier of the Captive, 
because those houses are the houses of Captives or imprisonment. If you find none there, behold 
the Planet which is under the Sun-Beames, he is the Signifier. 


Behold the hour at what time the Captive is taken in, and if the Lord of the hour be an Infortune, 
it signifies long imprisonment or Captivity. 


The Ancients say, he that is taken in the hour of the Sun, shall escape within a moneth; in the 
hour of Venus, in 40 dayes; in the hour of Mercury, long imprisonment; in the hour of the Moon, 
his state shall change according to the applications of the Moon hath with the Planets, fortunate 
or infortunate; according to which you shall judge easie or slow deliverance: he that is 


The Resolution of 


taken in the hour of Saturn, shall be long in prison; in the hour of Jupiter, he shall soon goe out, 
but he that is taken in the hour of Mars, much trouble shall happen unto him in prison, for he 
shall be put in Fetters or beaten; this you must understand of Fellons, or Souldiers, or men that 
break Prison, or of mad men, &c. 


CHAP. XCII. 


If one be Bewitched or not. 


If the Lord of the 12th be in the 6th, or the Lord of the 6th in the 12th, or the Lord of the 
ascendant in the 12th, or the Lord of the 12th in the ascendant, or the Lord of the 8th in the 
ascendant, or the Lord of the ascendant in the 8th, in a Question where suspition of Witchcraft is, 
it is probable; otherwise not so: But the Judgment succeeding I have found more certaine. 


It’s a received, generall Rule amongst those Artists that know the Cabalisticall Key of Astrologie, 
that if one Planet be Lord of the ascendant and 12th house, that then the Sicknesse is more then 
naturall: when Saturn is Lord of the ascendant and 12th, and in the 12th Retrograde, or in the 7th 
or 8th house in the same condition, and the Moon being Lady of the 6th, apply to Saturn, we 
constantly judge the party enquiring is Bewitched or Fore spoken, or that an evill Spirit hath 
power over him, and that the Infirm will be sore oppressed and disturbed in his Fancy, if not 
distracted. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be Combust, or infortunate in the 12th, or joyned to the Lord of the 
12th, there may be great feare, that the party enquiring or enquired for is Inchanted or 
Bewitched, or else some evill Spirits doe hant him, If the Lord of the ascendant be Lord of the 
12th, and Combust, you must observe of what house the Sun is Lord, and in what Signe and 
quarter of Heaven he and the Lord of the ascendant are, and judge the Witch liveth that way; 
describe the Sun Sign as he is, and it represents the person. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be Lord of the 12th, Combust, or 


all manner of QUESTIONS.. 


unfortunate by the Lord of the 3rd, it’s a Neighbour hath procured some Witch to doe this act, or 
one of the Kindred; see in what house the Lord of the ascendant fals to be in, and in what house 
the Lord of the 3rd is in, and infortunates him, you may judge the cause of the malice to proceed 
from something of the nature of that house; as if either of them be in the 6th, it’s for Pastorage of 
Cattle, or some difference about small Cattle, or for one hiring the others Servants, &c. and in 
like manner consider all twelve houses. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be infortunate, as aforesaid, by the Lord of the 5th, it’s some Ale- 
wife, Nurse, or some drunken companion that occasions it, or hath procured this Witchery. 


If the Lord of the 10th afflict the Lord of the ascendant in the 12th, it’s doubtlesse the hand of 
God, or by some supernaturall power or cause. 


If the Lord of the ascendant be an unfortunate Planet, as Mars or Saturn, and be in the 12th 
house, Combust and infortunated by the Lord of the 12th, it imports the man is bewitched by a 
common Witch.. 


If the Lord of the 12th be in the ascendant it argues Witchcraft, or that some evill Spirit doth 
molest the party, or that some that are neer him or about him have evill tongues, or in plaine 
tearmes, have bewitched him. 


In places where people are troubled with Witches, as in many places of this Kingdome they are, 
these Rules will hold: as also, if the Moon be in the 12th, in Opposition to the Lord of the 
ascendant or 12th. If people suspect their Cattle Bewitched, if they be great Cattle, make the 12th 
house their ascendant, and the 11th their 12th house, and vary your Rules with Judgment. 


NATURALL REMEDIES FOR WITCHCRAFT. 


Having by the Figure discovered and described the Party, either by that Planet who is Lord of the 
12th, or posited in the 12th, and doth behold the Lord of the ascendant with a malicious 


The Resolution of 


aspect, you must let one watch the party suspected, when they goe home to their owne house, 
and presently after, before any body goe into the house after him or her, let one pull a handfull of 
the Thatch, or a Tile that is over the Doore: and if it be a Tile, make a good fire and heat it red 
hot therein, setting a Trevet over it, then take the parties water, if it be a man, woman or child, 
and poure it upon the red hot Tile, upon one side first, and then on the other, and againe put the 
Tile in the fire, and make it extreamly hot, turning it ever and anon, and let no body come into 
the house in the meane time. 


If they be Cattle that are bewtiched, take some of the Haire of every one of them, and mix the 
Haire in faire water, or wet it well, and then lay it under the Tile, the Trevet standing over the 
Tile: make a lusty fire, turne your Tile oft upon the Haire, and stir up the Haire ever and anon: 
after you have done this by the space of a quarter of an hour, let the fire alone, and when the 
ashes are cold, bury them in the ground towards that quarter of heaven where the suspected 
Witch lives. 


If the Witch lives where there is no Tile but Thatch, then take a great handfull thereof, and wet it 
is the parties water, or else in common water mixed with some salt, then lay it in the fire, so that 
it may molter and smother by degrees and in a long time, setting a Trevet over it. 


Or else take two new Horse-shooes, heat them red hot, and naile one of them on the Threshold of 
the Door, but quench the other in Urine of the party so Bewitched; then set the Urine over the 
fire, and put the Horse-shooes in it, setting a Trevet over the Pipkin or Pan wherein the Urine is; 
make the Urine boyle, with a little salt put into it, and three Horse-nails untill it’s almost 
consumed, viz. the Urine; what is not boyled fully away poure into the fire: keep your Horse- 
shooe and nailes in a cleane cloth or paper, and use the same manner three severall times; the 
operation would be farre more effectuall, if you doe these things at the very change or full Moon, 
or at the very hour of the first or second quarter thereof. If they be Cattle bewitched, you must 
mix the Haire of their Tailes with the Thatch, and moysten them, being well bound together, and 
so let them be a long time in the fire consuming. These are naturall experiments, and work by 
sympathy, as I have found by severall experiments: I could have perscribed many more, Multa 
creduntur ratione experintia, non quod videntur vera vi rationis. 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


CHAP. XCIII. 


A Horse lost or stolen neer Henley, if recoverable or not? 


$$ ee 
o 4 
t1) fon 2646 Wh: 





Mercury Here Lord of the 12th signifies the Horse whom you see Retrograde, & hastening to a 
Conjunction of the Sun, Lord of the Querent's House of Substance; forasmuch as Mercury did by 
his Retrograde motion apply to the Lord of the Querent’s house of Substance, and that the Moon 
was locally in the 2nd and both Jupiter and Mars Retrograde, neer the cusp of the 2nd, I judged 
the Querent should have his Goods or Horse quickly and unexpectedly, within a day to two from 
the time of the Question asked; and because the 7th house was afflicted by South Node, I judged 
the Thief could not keep him. 


I was asked, Which way he went? I considered the Signe of the 12th was Gemini, viz. West; the 
Signe wherein Mercury Lord of the .12th was in, was Aquarius, viz. West; though the quarter of 
Heaven was South, but much inclining to the West; and the Moon was in Leo, a North-east 
Signe: Besides, Mercury as he was Lord of the 4th, was in a West Signe. From whence I 
concluded, the Horse was gone Westward; but because Mercury was Retrograde, I judged the 
Horse would not proceed farre, but return againe to his proper owner; [and indeed the Horse did 
come home three dayes after, and had been full West.] However, I judged the Horse would have 
been at home a day sooner; but who shall more exactly consider of the Scheame, shall find, the 
Mercury Significator of the Horse, although he came to the body of Sun Lord of the Querent’s 
house of Substance, the same night the Question was 


The Resolution of 


asked, yet because the Sun had no Dignities where he was, the Horse came not home untill 
Wednesday or Thursday the 13th or 14th of January, at what time Mercury and Venus came to a 
partill Conjunction. 


I must confesse, here were many good significations that the Querent should recover his lost 
Horse: first, North Node in the ascendant: next, Moon in the 2nd, arguing he should be 
discovered: thirdly, Mercury Lord of the thing lost Retrograde, importing a returning of the thing 
againe casually: fourthly, two Retrograde Planets upon the cusp of the 2nd, which usually shews 
quick and unexpected recovery; Jupiter and Mars peregrine, I took them for those that rode away 
the Horse, Jupiter especially; [and it was very true. ] 


CHAP. XCIV. 


If Bewitched. 





Wee must first consider if Mars Lord of the 12th afflict Mercury Lord of the ascendant, or if 
Mars afflict the Moon; or whether Mercury be Lord of the ascendant and 12th, or if Saturn Lord 
of the 8th doe mischieve the ascendant; for without the Lord of the ascendant or ascendant 
itselfe, or the Moon be afflicted by the Lord of the 12th, there’s no strong Witchcraft: Here 
finding the Moon going to Opposition of Saturn, both Planets in the 6th and 12th houses, it gave 
suspition of Witchcraft, and there seemed to those that asked for the Querent some reason for it, 
in regard 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


the Physitians had prescribed much Physick, and it wrought no effect, but the Patient was worse 
and worse: I positively affirmed he was not bewitched, because Mercury was in Trine to Jupiter 
and Mars, and Venus in the 12th, and Saturn much elongated from the cusp of the house, the 
Moon applying after her Opposition of Saturn, unto Mercury Lord of the ascendant, he above the 
earth, ascending towards the Meridian. 


I directed them againe to advise with the Doctors, and civilly to aquaint them, that the Disease 
peccant was occult, and lay in the Reines and Secrets, and occasioned by too much Venerian 
sports, &c. That it was so, Libra is on the cusp of the 6th; Venus Lady of the Signe in the 12th; 
ergo, an occult secret Disease, and Venerian, 


Moon in Scorpio in the 6th, in Opposition to Saturn in the 12th; this argues a Female Disease, 
closely obtained; for as it was a deed of darknesse, so doe neither Saturn or Moon behold the 
ascendant: I judged he was itchy, because Mercury was in Pisces, a moyst Signe, and because 
Libra the Signe of the 6th, and Gemini are ayery Signes, the Disease was all over his Bones, and 
in his joynts, and in his Blood, that being corrupted: I did not say it was perfect Lue Veneria, but 
I gave a caution to prevent it. This advice was followed, the course of Physick altered, and the 
afflicted party in or about three weeks perfectly recovered. 


The Resolution of 
CHAP. XCV. 


A Prisoner escaped out of Prison, which way 
he went, If Recoverable? 


lune 6.16 
3s PM ars 


ab 3 
(cd woe 





The person of the Prisoner is represented by Sagittarius the cusp of the 12th, and Jupiter in Leo. 


The way he went and intended to go, is from the Signe of the 12th, viz. Sagittarius, and the Signe 
Leo wherein Jupiter is. 


Quarter of Heaven & Sign where Moon is in. 


All of them considered, they signified unanimously that the Prisoner would goe Eastward, or Ful 
East; [and so he did..] The neernesse of Moon to the ascendant, shewed he was not yet out of 
Towne, but Eastward from the Prison he brake out of; at least, that he could not be farre from 
Towne: and as Jupiter is in the 8th house, so I judged he lay obscurely for a while, viz. a night, 
but then would go away; [so he did.] 


I confidently affirmed, he should be recovered againe, and taken by some man of authority; for 
the Moon separated from Trine of Jupiter his Significator, and applyed to Opposition of Sun, 
both in angles; for it never failes, but if either the Moon or Significator of the Prisoner or 
Fugitive be afflicted by an infortunate Planet out of the 7th, but that the Fugitive or Prisoner is 
againe taken. 


In the next place I found Jupiter and Mercury in Sextile; Mercury in his owne house, and 
applying to Jupiter, therefore I judged the Querent should have newes of the Prisoner by Letter, 
or by some young man within six or seven dayes, or when the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


Significators came to a Sextile aspect, which was six dayes after. The truth is, the Friday after, he 
had a letter where he was, and the Sunday after apprehended him againe by authority, &c. This 
manner of judgment is the same with that of Fugitives, (Consideratis, considerandis.) 


CHAP. XCVI. 


A LADY of her Husband imprisoned, when he 
should be delivered? 


Tune 6 its 
a PM ars 





Judgment upon this Figure. 


This Question belongs to the 12th house; Jupiter Lord of the 7th signifies the Ladies Husband, in 
Cancer Retrograde, lately, or the day before, in Trifle with the Sun, the Moon applying to a 
Sextile of Saturn, Retrograde, then to a Trine of Jupiter, with a most forcible Reception; from 
hence I made not many words, but told the Lady, she should neither care to make Friends to his 


The Resolution of 


Majesty or any else for delivery of her Husband, for I was assured he either was or would within 
three dayes be discharged of his imprisonment, by meanes of a Solar man, Commander, who 
would release him and furnish him with what was convenient for his necessity. The very truth is, 
he was released, and the Garrison where he was prisoner taken the same day before the Question 
was asked, by an honest Parliament-Colonell, who plentifully relieved him with Money, and all 
convenient necessaries . 


Jupiter In Exaltation Retrograde, in a movable Signe, in Trine to Sun, short imprisonment, 
because Sun is Lord of the 4th, and in so perfect a Trine. 


The time of his Excellencies, Rosen T Earle 
of Effex, la& {erring forth into che ef. . 





b Here == the afcending 

Signywell reprefents hie 
torme of body, for it was 
D comely,¢rce h Yand ? 
bis mind; %& bath alfa 
much to doe in bis gualie 
ties yas being Lord of % 
an interpreted Sipne in 
the afcendant, 

I firft confidsred that 
the Djeparated from a A 
of hy & alplyed toa 
of o* Lord of bis Subftice 
Ajjiffants and Friends, 
and alfa of the 9” bone, 
viz. bis Journey, which intimated, be fhoutd have flender [ucceffe, and 
much lofle by this bis prefent Martch : finding 09 in the afcendant, I judg~ 
ed he weuld be betrayed in bis Counfels 5 and feeing hh Lord of the'a(cen. 
dant Peregrine, and in bis Fall in tbe fecond, and } in her Detriment, 
and @ difpofed by ¥ a Significator of kis Enemies, and that ¥ did cven 
partilly with adcxter OC bebold the degree a‘cending, I onely fave this 
Judgment, that bis Excellency suft expect no fuccefle froth this imploy- 
mint, that be would bave no bonowr by the Journey, that be would be cx- 
treamly croffed by men of great power bere at London, that pretended 
friendfhip unto him , that be would be betrayed wielly, and be in dakper le 
lofe all : that I was heartily forry be bad inade clayce of fo wnluchie atime 
to fet forth ins cum multis aliiss The iffwe wos thus, (fer I write lo 
Pofterity ) be profpered in the beginning, and daily men of good quality 
and of authority jeered at me, and derided my former fredi&iion : ‘I was 
well content to have been abufed all to pieces, conditionally be might have 
had the better :: But bebold the civbih of September following caine fad 
newes, that the fecond of September this worthy man had Taree all 
bis Ammunition to bis Majefty, having oncly Quarter for bis Souldiers, 
with fome otber Articles which were difhonowrably performeisto the etera 
nall fuame of the royal! Party. 


O oo A Ta ble 


Figure 44 


[A facsimile from 
the orignal text of 
Christian 
Astrology 


0001 


A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place of 


Hours before Noon 








A 06 of of op oho ofr oz or 30 
P——g5~s46 ssl 6685710 ~sefi0 6a] 0) 27 
a eS ere: =: 
| tata] t] 55] 57] 
| 12| 35] 3043] 4a|_—53|_5e|_— LS 18 
A 15 (5 286 33/7 39/8 44jo 49fio 55112 o|F 15 | 
| te] 22] 28] 35] at] a] Sa] 


ee ae ee 

Pa a 

sat — oat a8 

45 

sea Siar anneal EO 
| 3g) of }s§s c—Cé$e CDT! S ($>Cé 
a tat reat 0 
——_Si|_13|_s1_so_171_39}_g}__2 
| 14a] 10,_—— 32] 54] t] S38] 
"EERE SNE ET SE 
| 8] 43] |S] 52] ta] 7] 

ita  ateeelet a eros ceal actos oO 


| 18] 23139) 
| 2] 18] 35 
| 2412] 30) 
[art lr] 8 
co 4 i623] 
| 385919) 





0002 


Place of | A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place of 


Hours before Noon 








| | t] 13], 1] tf] 
SS aS ee ee ee ee: 
| ta} S| S13] 9] 25] 32] 3] 1) 
| 2] 715] 22] 29] a7] aa] 
| at tt] S25] 33] 4] |S 
Boo Of 11f2 218 324 42] 537 3 |F oO | 
35 
| S13] 25] 3@|_—506_— 6 | 15] 
| 13] r| ol] |] 


co St 20/2 393 50/5 18/6 38/7 57|E 0 | 


C30 242 a7 115 35f6 588 22|D 0 





0003 


A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place of 
Hours before Noon | |the Q. 








11 O}12 O 30 


5 


= 
—_ 


—_ —_ —_ —_ i. 
NINO] S5 [oO [P [eo lo |N io ]O YA | [rm [3 [O N A ]lolym|o 


—_ 
= 
ip) 
o 
o 


H.M. |S.D. 

12 ok 30 | 
a) es, 
a 
a) er) 
| ol 48 
=: aa 
a) 
a) 
a 
M2 ok Oo | 
a) es, 
a 
a) er) 
| Oo 48 
a) ar 
a) 
a) 
| ol 
M2 o|K Oo | 
fr 10) — 27 
a 
a) ar) 
| Oo 48 
12 0 
= 
a) 
| oC 
ae 
yo | 


WW [oO |o 


1 30 (8 228 58/9 35/10 11|10 47/11 24/12 0 





0004 


Place of | A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place of 
Hours before Noon | i |the Q. 











0005 


A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place 
Hours before Noon | __—of the 








Q. 
S.D. 


50 
15/8 53/9 45|11 23/12 


C 30 {8 21/8 50)9 25110 11/10 47|11 24|12 





0006 


Place 


| _|of the 


2 
= 
re) 
s 
NY 
£ 
® 
< 
& 
a 
® 
s 
xe) 
& 
— 
2 
g 
© 
g 
= 
2 
e 
LS 
<x 


Place of 


Hours before Noon 








NTS] =<] oO N oD N]+]/=] 0 N Ip) N]=] =] 0 ~ 9) 
NNIEN] ] Lo] NI NTEN] - NU NTN] = - 
(o>) lo Lo 
poo * - — 
a 
OD | LL Ww a 
a heel Be) NT OO —/OlTOlst C9] CO, LOT =| 0 oOl—|Ola 
ae LO ire) st s tlc oO o 
Olt cOTeay ool oo Ip) se) co) DOO DL OTOTO LO] ST eo] od 
Ijpwols+ a a oO o (ae) Oo Oo 
(NTO OT=[NITN TTOTNTO LOT AIT co] oO olstl an Ort | NTO 
Il+|o oO oO N N N N 
t/ =] 0 | CO!LOIN O;/Mm!)O;- N wt oOo; t+ wT] | O!]O 
LLOln N N N N = = = 
oOlstlN Nolo] = Nlwlol< ro} Eco} Ea se) oo ee) LOT LOT =F] 9 
OD] 99] tO] 9] LO] SIF] SF] SF] SE] | 09] 09] 69] co] AEN AY AT NT A] A pe] HK] 2p] Pell 
- ve 
= 
LIN —_ - - - —- —- 
oo;h-[ oO STON = Dlolr|[o TOA = SO] @| 1] oo NINTRI®R 
Ij<|o fo) fo) (o) fo} oO (~) 


o N (co) Rel Bae (se) N oOy;rist hd oO N (eo) Bl be 
- TININTEN - TININTN - TI NININ 
lO Ke) oO Ww 
is a a — 
a 
io) 4 a UO UO UO 





0007 


A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place 
Hours before Noon 2 = 








za 


IH 15 4 285 43/6 sols 14/9 20/10 45/12 o|K 15 | 
| te] 23] 39] 55] 12] 2] a1 


a ee: ee ee ee ee ee 
Ho 4 35 23/6 42\8 2 fo 210 41/12 ok 0 | 
| 38 5o] to] 30] 20] 47 
| 55] 16] 7i7_ 58] 18] 39] 
2 tt 





[a0 5366 fe 957 a0] —1ahi0 a6lia of 0 


0008 


Place of A Table whereby to find the Planetary hours |Place of 
Hours before Noon | {the Q. 








—25| 33] aot sof 
at aot isl —2e] 36] ae] 57] 
Hot 12 218 324 42] 537 3 bk oO | 
| 12] 23]_ 35] ae], 58] 
| St] 25] 388] 506_ 3 | 15] 
| St] 7| ofS 53] 70] 


33 


Ho ft 20f2 30/3 59/5 18/6 38/7 57 |K 0 | 


Ie 30_ ft 24fa ava 11/5 35]6 sala 22) o | 





The Resolution of 


CHAP. XCVII. 


To find out what Planet ruleth every hour of the Day 
or Night by the preceding Table. 


You must understand that as there are seven dayes of the Week, viz. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, 
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday; so there are seven Planets, viz. Saturne, Jupiter, Mars, 
Sol, Venus, Mercury, Luna: We appropriate to each day of the Week a severall Planet; as to 
Sunday, Sun; to Monday, Moon; to Thursday, Mars; to Wednesday, Mercury; to Thursday, 
Jupiter; to Friday, Venus; to Saturday, Saturn: and the first hour of every day we assigne to that 
Planet assigned for the day, beginning at Sun-rise ever, the second houre we give to the next 
Planet, the third hour to the third Planet from him; as if upon any Sunday I would know what 
Planet governeth the first, second, third, fourth, fift, sixt hour of that day, I say Sun governeth the 
first, Venus the second, Mercury the third, Moon the fourth, Saturn the fift, Jupiter the sixt, &c. 
and so in order successively during that day and night subsequent: and if you account in order, 
you shall find by this continuall account, that Moon fals to rule the first hour upon Monday, 
Saturn the second, Jupiter the third, Mars the fourth, &c. 


It is very true, some of the Ancients have Winter and Summer, made the day and night to consist 
of equall hours, I mean every hour to consist of sixty minutes equally; but Astrologians doe not 
so, but follow this method, viz. according to the motion of the Sun both Summer and Winter, so 
doe they vary their hours in length or shortnesse; for all that space of time which is contained 
from Sun rise to Sun-set, they divide into twelve equall parts, whereof the one halfe containes the 
hours before Noon, the rest the hours after Noon; so also, what space of time is from Sun-set 
untill Sun-rise againe the next day after, is equally divided into 12 parts; whereof every 12" part 
containes the space or time of one hour Astrologicall; and we doe ever begin to number from 
Sun-rise, and continue untill the next Sunrise, with that Planet who is assigned to the day, and so 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


numbering successively in order untill the next day; so that your Astrologicall hours are called 
unequall hours, as all the yeer long consisting of more or lesse then 60 minutes for the space of 
one hour, unlesse it be the day of the Sun his entrance into Aries or Libra, at what time an 
Astrologicall hour is just 60 minutes and no more. 


Use of the Table. 


Be the Sun in Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, and you would know the Planetary 
hour of the day, first and second Pages serve your turne. 


If you would know the Planetary hour of any day, the Sun being in Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, the third and fourth Pages will serve you. 


If you would know the Planetary hour of the night or after Sun-set, whilest the Sun is in Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini, Leo, Virgo, then you must be directed by the fift and sixt Pages of this Table. 


If you would know the Planetary hour od the night, the Sun being in Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, 
Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, the seventh and eight Pages will satisfie you. 


An Example. 


If you would know when the Sun riseth, being in the third, fourth or fift of Aries, see to the first 
Column of the first Page, and there you find, Place of the Sun, under it, S.D. viz, Signes, 
Degrees, under these two letters, Aries 0, then under 0 3. on the right hand, 5 54. over it H.M. 
viz. Houres and Minutes; so that it tels you, the Sun being in three deg. of Aries, riseth at 54 
minutes after 5. proceed in the same line, and you see the Planetary houre; as, admit I would 
know at halfe an houre after nine in the morning, upon Monday the 15. of March 1646, the Sun 
at noon that day being in 4.. degr. 47.min. of Aries, which wanting so few min. of 5.degr. I enter 
with five whole degr. under the Signe Aries, and in the fourth line of the first Column I find 6. 
for the whole Table of Signes goes by the continuall addition of three, and if I had entred with 
four or five degrees of Sun in Aries, I might have taken either three or six, and it 


The Resolution of 


had bred little difference. But to the purpose, over against 6. on the right hand, I find, as 
aforesaid, 5 47. for the time of Sun-rising, then 6 47. then in order 7 5. then 8 54. then 9 56, my 
hour was 9 30. so then I begin and say, the Moon being the Planet of the day, beginneth to rule at 
47.min. after 5. and governeth until 47.min. after 6. then Saturn ruleth the 2nd hour of the day, 
untill 51.min. after 7. then Jupiter ruleth the 3rd hour, viz. till 54.min. after 8. then Mars the 
fourth hour, until 56.min. after 9. which is the hour sought for, I say Mars ruleth at that hour; and 
so you must doe either day or night: And you must remember, that as you see onely in the first 
Column Aries, Taurus, Gemini, so in the ninth Column of the said page, Virgo, Leo, and Cancer, 
so when you enter with the place of the Sun in Virgo, Leo or Cancer, you must enter upward 
contrary to the former side; for the Sun being in 15. of Taurus, riseth at the same moment of time 
as he doth being in the 15. of Leo: or when in the 15. of Virgo, as when in the 15. of Aries. The 
length of the Planetary hour is thus known, let the Sun be in the 6th degree of Aries, he riseth 
then, as you may see, at 47.min. after 5. 


In the third Column you find 6 47. which if you subtract from the next number on the right hand 
in the same line, viz. 


Tass 7 51 rests one hour and four minutes for 
6 47 the length of the houre that day, 


and so as your day-hour is more then 60 minutes, so much the nocturnall hour must want of 60 
min. and this is a generall rule. 


The above named 15. of March 1646, the Sun being in 4 47. of Aries, I would know what Planet 
reignes at 20 min. past 5. in the afternoon; I enter the first Column of the second Page, under the 
title of the Sun, in the fourth line under Aries I find 6. and accept of that without errour, because 
the place of Sun is 4 47. of Aries, and so is neerer 6. then 4. over against 6. on the right hand, I 
find 1 2. then 2 4.. then 3 6. then 4 9. then 5 11. then 6 13. these tels me, the first Planetary hour 
after noon ends at | 2. that is, two min. after one, the second at two min. after two, the third at six 
min. after three, the fourth at nine min. after four, the fift at eleven min. after five, the sixt at 
thirteen min. after 6.. now my hour enquired after was 20 mm. past 5. which fals to be the last 
hour of the 


all manner of QUESTIONS. 


day; and if you look over the head of 6 13. you may see the number 12 viz, it’s the twelft hour of 
the day; now if you begin in the morning at Sun-rise, accounting Moon the first, and so proceed, 


MOON SATURN JUPITER MARS SUN VENUS MERCURY 
1 Z i! 4 me) 6 7 


MOON SATURN JUPITER MARS SUN 
8 9 10 11 12 


You shall find, that Sun begins his rule at eleven min. past five, and ends at thirteen min. past six. 
I need not be more copious in a thing so plaine and obvious to the eye; I shall onely propound 
one example more, viz..: 

the said 15 of March 11 deg. 10 min. after noon, I would know what Planet rules; the Sun being 
in 4 47 of Aries, I now enter the fifth Page of the Table, I look to the 6. of Aries, against it on the 
right hand I find 6 13. then 7 11. then 8 9. then 9 7. then 10 4. then 11 2. then 12 0. 


My hour is ten min. after 11, in the seventh Column you have 11 2.. my hour is included in the 
next; so then I conclude my hour is the last hour before mid-night, and consequently the 6th hour 
after Sun-set, but the 18th hour of the day, and being accounted as we formerly instructed, you 
shall find it the hour of Mars. Either in giving Physick, or performing many naturall conclusions, 
without exact knowledge of the Astrologicall planetary hour, no worthy work can be done, with 
it wonders, either in collecting Hearbs, framing Sigils, Images, Lamens, &c. 


So now by the blessing of Almighty God, without whose providence we can performe no worthy 
act, I have produced to an end the second part of my intended Work, and could have willingly 
acquainted untill a further opportunity had been offered: but such is the desire and importunity of 
severall wel-affected to this study, that beyond my first intentions I againe adventure upon the 
succeding Traciate of NATIVITIES, wherein the pitifull and mercifull God of all the faithfull, 
whole brightnesse shines in our fraile understandings, assist me, that I may performe this Work 
with judgment and understanding, for the good of all honesthearted English, my most beloved 
Country-men. Assist me 0 glorious God, for my Task is difficult, and thy servant is of little 
understanding! few, nay none at all are the helps I expect from any man living (having hitherto 
had no assistance) 


The Resolution of 


but what thy pleasure is, But the universall Anima Mundi, to infuse into my obscure intellective 
part, that will I candidly deliver without deceit or fraud and as my former two Parts have had 
neither the Head, Hand or Heart or assistance of any man, so neither now will I beg or begin to 
distrust that Providence, whereby I have waded through the former Treatise, but will like a 
valiant Champion enter the fields of Defiance, against all the world of Detractors, and performe 
what my present weaknesse is able, &c. not doubting but there wil some arise in all Ages, who 
will either amend my failings, or defend my sayings so farre as they may with modesty. 


June 11. 1647. 
WILLIAM LILLY 





487 


488 


APPENDIX A 


Lilly’s hand-drawn charts are often difficult to read. Using data provided by Anthony Louis in 
his excellent book, Horary Astrology Plain & Simple, | have redrawn the charts in a modern 
astrology program. All charts use the Regiomontanus house system. 


There will be slight differences between the original charts, and the modern ones. Our modern 
day ephemeredes are more accurate than those Lilly had available to him. 


Each chart is titled according to the page number on which the original, hand-drawn chart 


appears. The chart “Lilly 473” is followed by an adjusted chart that moves the moon into 
Capricorn, as in Lilly’s original. 


The final chart—Lilly’s natal chart--is not from Christian Astrology. 


11° 3 12 [FivedStars Ss] Sr Arabic Parts sO 
% # ZUBEN ELSCHEMALI- a Treachery 
4% o ALCYONE Water Journeys 
23 o SPICAx= Daughters 
ds of REGULUS#** Hon. Aquaintance 
Daughters 
Hon. Aquaintance 
Goods 


Fortune 


| Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Term 4 2 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Exalt 
Exalt-Trip 
Exalt-Trip 
Exalt-Face 


Trip-T erm 


+ 
40 G) 400 
+ 
+ 


3 







wi tOGwiow 
3 


Lilly135 
Horary Chart (2) * : 
Mar 24 1633 NS 11" Mh 12 
2:26 pm LMT +0:04:40 
, England 

51°N30' 001 “W100! 


DEF AOA KrYcm Ow 
HOO WP top tPA ic 
Ci el a eo 
I) Fy ot Fy to 4 Dy tee Dy dee 4. 





Day of 4 Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 
3th Hour of Da 


Last Hr 4, -17 mins 
Next Hr ©) +45 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
21° 22°00" | +05°36 | +12°59'| 049°43'[-20°57'| Oa"T'38 | 08"=38 
04°T'11'19"| +01°40" | +00°59'| 22°33" | +32°12'| 25°49 | 25°49 
14°57 | -08°07"| +01°38'| 233°50"'| +15°45'] 15°03 | 15°T'03 
15°56 = | +18°08"| +01°09'| 172°44'| +56°28'| 14°Sy04 | 14°04 
28°40 | -01°19'| +00°47"| 225°58'| +27°28'| O1°=20 | o1°T20 
24°06 = | +18°12'| +00°11'| 157°50'| +55°07"| O5°s 54 | 05°ac54 
10°14. | -20°11'| -00°O1"| 311°46"| -50°50'| 19°46 | 19°46 
17°T55 RK. | +07°03'| -00°O1"| 210°19"| +41°54"| 12°1PO5 | 12405 
17°=55.R, | -07°03'| -00°01'| 030°19'| -41°54'] 12405 | 12°05 
24°S)03'06"| +13°32'| +00°00' | 067°55'| +00°00'| O5°857 | 05°57 
11°81207"| +15°13'| +00°00'| 180°00" | +53°43'] 18°48 | 18°49 
tist4 | -15°10'| +00°00"' | 257-11" | -09°13'| 18°46 | 18° 46 








Me 
oan 


i 









04° §) 31° [Arabic Parts sO 
: Dek oes || $v POL 
Da As 1°06'S 2 o POLARIS ® o° Fortune o°o0' 
DxX O2A ® o CAPELLA 
Doe T 256A # ALPHECCA 
DA Me F274 o BELLATRIX == 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 
Q@ ¥ Ruler-Trip | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
od & Ruler-Term ¥ +1 
© Exalt-Trip 
* Trip-Face 
% Term-Face 
od’ Face-Face 


+ 
+ 


+3 + 


FY OY tO Fy tee fost ot 





Lilly152 
Horary Chart (3) 
Jul 30 1638 NS 
11:55 am LMT +0:01:32 
, England 

51°N22' O00"*W23' 















SQEFAQostr_owOy 

3) st +0 40 tt tO st +0 +0 
+ 

+O SEO, 400 at I +0 at toc 400 ot 
+ 

Oy sty 40 40 HYD) 40 ot 


04° xx 31' 






Moon void of course 

PC] —Tong J Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anes | Can] Ta ¥ “oe ae 
20340" +12°03' | 306"42" 0256 | 02"T56 || — 
OF*8207'27" +00°57" | 175°20' 22°53 | 22°53 

17354 +01°04' | 210°56' 12°06 | 12°06 | 
22° 37 +01°04' | 245°33' OF B23 | OF {23 || 
11°01 +00°13' | 082°47" 18°j59 | 18°59 =) 
27°24 +00°06' | 104°31' 02°H36 | 02°36 | | 
03°2%20 R. -00°04' | 001°56" 26°40 | 26°05 40 || 
06°40 R. -00°04' | 050°17" 23°420 | 23°20 os27 
06°40 R. -00°04' | 230°17" 23°20 | 23°20 

25°=57'17" +00°00' | 106°13' 0403 | 04°03 | 








oooSidiSe} || |As 
¢ |o 
Sulied [ed | | | |@ 


04°S)30'56" +00°00' | 180°00" 25°29 | 25°29 


15°54 +00°00' | 259°51' 14°06 | 14°§06 A 





23 37) 


6: 


ill 








Lilly 162 


Horary Chart (4) 


Jan 7 1645 NS 


3:32 pm LMT +0:00:40 


, England 


§1°N30' 000°W10' 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat._| 


Te 852'51" 
17°4851'09" 
16°855 
o4° 740 
19°28 Rk. 
21°028 R. 
14°7'28 
29°8)21 R. 
29°21 R, 
11°=84010" 
09°¢52'93" 
10°M42 


+12°05' 
-22°18' 
-2419 
-18°41' 
+26°27" 
41719 
+03°24' 
+11°43' 
-11°43 
+22°58' 
-08°15' 
-19°50' 


+14°25' 
+01°01' 
+01°39' 
+01°10' 
-00°13' 
-00°02' 
+00°02' 
-00°04' 
-00°04' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 












O° #53! 


08° (f 53° 


101°59' 
226°13' 
225°49' 
263°37" 
O67°16' 
095°28' 
137°48' 
009°51' 
189°51' 
051°11' 
180°00' 
284°19' 


13°8)07 
12°09 
13°05 
25°20 
10°S32 
08°S)32 
15°32 
00°39 
oo°m33 
18°20 
21°=07 
19°18 


13x07 
12°09 
13°05 
25°20 
10°82 
Og*32 
15°32 
o0°m39 
o0°b39 
19°720 
21°T 07 
19°918 


& § OO2A 
AQ OSA 
oy 435A 
o 0 13°07'A 


MUT. RECEPTIONS 
2 & Ruler-Ruler 


©) * Ruler-Exalt 
¥ Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler-Trip 
Ruler- Trip 
Ruler-Trip 
Ruler-T erm 
Ruler-Term 


ce 
Qk 
ae 
h¢ 
gh 
4 


QFFCDFSrAW KO 


iv 


[Fixed Stars Orb 


o& ANTARES *** 
oe ALGOL--- 

o FOMALHALT *** 
# ALCYONE 


o& ZUBEN ELGENUBI 


SQEFaorry_owoy 


Day of Hour of 9 
12th Hour of Da 


Last Hr ©) -8 mins 
Next Hr % +31 mins 


[Arabic Parts Orb 


FO es ee ee ee 


Sons 
Husbandry 
the Father 
Commerce 
Merchandise 
Fortune 
Servants 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY, 
| Pt| Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
-- +5 


+ 
40 400 St ©) otto Fy 4 te te DY 


CONSIDERATIONS 
[MoonisFast_ | 


® 


02° ¥ 02" [Fixed Stars | Orb Arabic Parts Orb 
@ o RAS ALHAGUE Sickness 


Mariage 

Spirit 
Understanding 
Life 


Life 
Danger or Peril 
Fortune 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY 
Q @* Ruler-Trip | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Deti | Fall_| Score | 
? 










9 gf? Ruler-Term Dd} 3 3 2 4 2 
© @ Exalt-Exalt O} 4 gm) 2m cg | 3 
© @ Exalt-Trip ¥) 4 g g 4 g- |e - 
2 © Exalt-Trip Sic Om) Om c g-|h 
© @ Trip-Trip J | 2 4 g dD |k df - 
do’ 9 Trip-Face %| D 4% +] ¢ yD |k ni 
df’ @ Tem-Face h| 3 »)) g Dd |e¢ |-- 
Q] D 4 g 3 h re 
ge lei le le Bs 
Eee 1 Be} 4 g g h 8 8 
orary Char ; : 
Mor 191647 NS 02° 02 Bil. | 8 [0 > 8 2 
10:29 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 


51°N30' OO0"W'10' 
Day of g* Hour of J CONSIDERATIONS 
Sth Hour of Da 


LastHr ¥ -20 mins 
Next Hr * +39 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
Tow 3309" +14°50' | 349°3T" IST27 [1927 
28°¢41'08" +00°59'| 149°41' o=19 | orig 
16°€18 +01°48" | 163°42" 13°42 | 13°42 
06° 20 +01°15'| 140°27" 23°40 | 23°40 
25°315 +00°10' | 032°56" o4°45 | 04°745 = 
28°S37 R -00°01" | 031°20" 01°23 | 01.723 Al 
14°49 +00°06' | 097°27" 15°11 | 1S°ex11 
19°B21 R -00°08' | 039°39" 10°39 | 10°439 
19°21 R -00°08' | 219°39' 10°39 | 10°39 
06°218'40" +00°00' | 050°29" 23°41 | 23°41 





6] 


02°#01'58" +00°00' | 180°00" 2758 | 27°T58 
18°11 +00°00' | 247°47" 11°49 | 11°49 


mur ArbioPats ~*~ -o | 
# DISDEM Husbandry 
o REGULUSs** Fatality 
o POLLUX Life 
# ZOSMA -- Servants 
o POLLUX Hon. Aquaintance 
Fortune 
Bondage 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 

Ruler-Term || |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trp | Term | Face | Det | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Term 4 4 -- 
Ruler-Face 
Ruler-Face 


? 
»)] 
g 
2 
23 Exalt-Term 
10) 
10) 
g 


at 


+ 


Trip-Term 
Trip-Face 
Term-Face 


ct 
4 
c 
4 
h 
t 
t 
4 











Lilly 17? 
Horary Chart (6) a " 
Jul 26 1634 NS Mi ll 
11:05 am LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 


QEFaQostr_owmOy 
QWwoce ery OOOO 
Oy toc fst Fy tor doe fF 40 ot 
HO HO fe toc toc gt OY ot ot ot 


Day of ¥ Hour of O CONSIDERATIONS 
6th Hour of Da 


Last Hr g* -17 mins 
Next Hr 2 +61 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON}| Alt._| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
19°6204'55" +11°53'[ 131710" T1785 [TOMS 
03°6)13'42" +00°57" | 153°55" 26°046 | 26°M46 
17°41 +01°48" | 139°54" 12°b19 | 12M139 
25°6)31 +01°13' | 126°34" o4°829 | 04°M.29 
16°12 +00°35' | 098°29" 13°48 | 13°48 
17°36 +00°13' | 182°22" 12°24 | 12°24 
15° 724 R -00°02' | 056°28" 14936 | 14°36 





21°16 R. -00°05' | 290°48" 0s°=44 | 08°T 44 
21°17 16 R. -00°05' | 110°48' osT44 | 08°=44 
142012" +00°00' | 099°0?" 1SH40 | 15°40 
18° 47'28" +00°00' | 180°00" 11°13 | 11°413 
00°11 +00°00' | 088°51' 29x49 | 29°49 


vi 


25° fh 11' 


TOLIMAN Marriage 

ALHENA Mariage 

ALHENA Catastrophe 

TOLIMAN Fortune 

VEGA Friends 

RUKBAT Imprisonment 
Private Enemies 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY’ 






9 % Ruler-Trip Pt] Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
+ od? Ruler-Term Dic |-- g |O 3 2D - 
9 & Ruler-Face olde g g »)) 
9 23 Exalt-Term gle 4 g »)) 
© 2 Trp-Trip 9} rh 8 $3 
of @ Trip-Term Sig h g »)) 
9 © Trip-Face %| D cf h ni 
9 og" Temm-Face hie h+ g h - 
Q/ 0 g ho | -- 
3] h 2 QO |-- 
Lilly 196 nae : ae: 
Horary Chart (7 " ' 
Neca eens ; eon Bib Es » o 
11:44 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 


y 


§1°N30' 000°W10' 






Day of 2 Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 
6th Hour of Da 


Last Hr 4, -41 mins 
Next Hr G) +2 mins 


Halea 


nh 
cal 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
TS°M.52'50" +12°01' | 188°41" Teex07 [14°07 
25°Mk33'26" +01°01' | 179°37" O4°a27 | 04°S)27 
08°26 +01°26' | 197°21' 21°34 | 21°34 
28° 756 +01°14'| 147°35" o1ygo4 | o1°s804 
29°M06 +00°43' | 176°04" oora54 | 00°54 
05°202 R. -00°05' | 321°10" 24°058 | 24° 758 
28°T'55 R. -00°04' | 027°44" armas | 01°05 
13°37 R -00°15' | 285°43" 16°23 | 16°M.23 
13°37 R, -00°15' | 105°43" 16°23 | 16°23 
20°4849'18" +00°00' | 126°45" og°11 | 09°11 
25°Mk1 050" +00°00' | 180°00" O4°a49 | 04°49 
11°09 +00°00' | 133°37" 19°751_ [18°51 


eolzel | | ley 
= 


ca] 


Vii 


06° B 13' MOONASPECTS | [Fixed Stars | Orb [Arabic Parts Orb 
De O 12°35'S RIGEL ** o Friends 


DO? 244A MIRZAM 0° the Mother 
ALPHERATZ o* Life 


DIADEM o Fortune 


DIADEM o° Goods 


Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Term c 

Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Face 
Exalt-Face 
Exalt-Face 
Trip-Face 
Term-Term 


+ 
+33 


Lilly 200 
Horary Chart (8) ° : 
Apr 21 1643 NS ey 
4:29 pm LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' O00*W'10' 





SQEFaorry_owmoy 
Sy tet to Fy to Fy ts fH Ato 4K 
Lr FtOrtOOr DOWD 
40 fot ot 409 4c tO 40 
MAOrOst test 1 


g 
c 
4 
? 
c 
c 
d 
ne 
d 
? 
o 


Day of gf Hour of 9 CONSIDERATIONS 


PR] Tong] Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anos | Cant] Ta Moon Fas 

12° 35°00") +17°S3"| +13°14'| 219°31' T°B25 | 17°§25 
01° 1742") +11°57"| +00°58' | 259°49' 28°42 | 28°ard2 
o6°T'04 +00°25' | +00°34'| 270°31' 23°56 | 23°56 
15°H19 - 05°38" | +00°55' | 282°40' 1441 | 14741 
O48 +25°03' | +00°35' | 189°41' 28°12 | 28°12 
03°T 28 +02°20' | +00°14' | 270°20' 21°32 | 21°H32 


ors -O1°12'| +00°0?" | 272°32' 28°06 | 28°06 
04°=51 R. | -01°56'| -00°04'] 093°01' 25°H09 | 25°09 
04°751 R | +01°56"| -00°04' | 273°01' 25°09 | 25°09 
04°=46'40") -01°54"| +00°00' | 093°03" 25°H13 | 25°13 
06°13'11"} +23°20' | +00°00' | 180°00' 23°47 | 23°47 
16°04 -21°19'| +00°00' | 075°36' 13°56 | 13°6)56 


ov 
151 





QFFanxrrxawcd 


viii 







19° & og! [Fixed Stars sd [Arabic Parts Sd 
% # REGULUS#** O°05' |} 3) o® the Mother 
* o ACULEUS o°5o' I] 2 oo =Treachery 
Me o” POLLUX O°ot' I} ® oo? Husbandry 
i; of Marriage 
® o Fortune 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 
Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
2 +4 


Dy 

$2 4 Ruler-Exalt 
9 of? Ruler-Trip 
4% oY Ruler-Trip 
8 ¢ 
oe 
oe 
D ¢ 


3 +3 


m 
+ 
m 


33 


Ruler-T erm 
Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Exalt 


Lilly 219 
Horary Chart (9) 
Apr 101634 NS 
6:03 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0"W'10' 


DEF AQOrKrYom Ow 
Ho sti C3 Die Ow « 
Pe Rae Se 
preteen ene eee 


g 
3 
10) 
My 
10) 
h + 
cw 
3 
h 
3 
2, 








18° 4 OS 


[Saray Hew] | consDeRaTions —] 
Pfahowtbay | [MoonieSiow J 
= — Last Hr ¢* -2? mins 

PR] Tong] Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anes | Cant] Ta ag a 
19° 22'59" +12°02' | 110°24' 1O°T3? | 10°37 
20°T 48'13" +00°59' | 275°27" OFM12 | OFH12 
03°b 43 +01°56' | 269°53' 26°S17 | 26°17 
1427 +01°14'| 277°23' 15°33 | 15°33 
11°09 R. -00°08' | 113°24' 18°751 | 18°51 
25°37 +00°09' | 223°03' 0423 | 04°23 
21° 428 R. -00°01') 047°50' O8°Wj32 | 08°32 
29H 27 +00°01' | 285°55' oo°=33 | 00°T33 
2927 +00°01') 105°55" oor33 | 00°=33 
13°=51'36" +00°00' | 098°439' 16°08 | 16°08 
18°S09'26" +00°00' | 180°00" 1°05) | 11°51 
12°26 +00°00' | 296°10' 1734 [17°34 


QFFQGDFrAW KO 





Me 
rt | | | [reeled @® 


1X 


25° 5 09 [Fixed Stars sO ff Arabic Parts Cs: 
9 ¢ ALGOL--- 0°24! Plays 
$s # ALDEBARAN ** 0°06" the Father 
Me o ALCYONE 0°15" the Father 
Fortune 


Goods 


a iO ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-T erm 9 
Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Trip 
Exalt-Trip 
Trip- Term 


+ + 


+ 


to: 







40 40 40 2D 


Lilly 238 
Horary Chart (10) . : 
Jun 22 1635 NS 25" fh 03 
3:30 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0"W'10' 


DEF AOA KrYcMm Ow 

HY 40 4 dan PY Ode 40 doc tt dt 

Bt 4 OCS | SWI DP 4c 

FY stac te tO FW, sto PY AVA, A, 

Hoe tO) G) st ost HA, ot O40 40 
+ 

Hor Fy ff tec doc a pF fe ot PY 


sO 


Day of @ Hour of 2 CONSIDERATIONS 


5th Hour of Da Moon void of course 
— Last Hr % -13 mins Moon is Slow 
[Pt] Long. | Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt | Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat__| 


25 4222" +11°50"| 61°25" oT 18 Be Dg Ss 
00°s230'02" +00°57'| 119°38" 29°11 30 
25°03 +02°10' | 126°21' 04°57 
20°8 41 +01°09' | 186°28" 09°s)19 
18°30 +00°41" | 136°36" 11°30 
05°07 +00°12' | 088°56" 24° 353 
29° 728 R. -00°04' | 301°50" 00432 
04°3425 +00°00' | 53°19" 25°35 
04m 25 +00°00' | 073°19' 25735 
o3°mP50'41" +00°00' | 073°36" 26°09 
25° $0841" +00°00' | 180°00" 04°S)51 
07° 703 +00°00' | 45°14" 26°\857 





® 


02° IT 20° [Fixed Stars | Orb fArabicParts Orb 
% 4 MENKAR --- 2 of Catastrophe O16" 
¢' o CASTOR 0 Sudden Advanceme 0°53" 
* # BETELGEUSE x ® o° Fortune 0°00" 
@ 2°224 1 6 # RAS ALHAGUE 
2374 | o CAPULUS--- 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Trip 3 
Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 
Trip- Term 
Trip-Face 


tot 
' ' 







Lilly 240 
Horary Chart (11) . , 
Apr 17 1645 NS old 
2:17 pm LMT +0:04:40 
, England 

51°N30' 001 “W100! 


DEF ADS Hr yw«Ou|2 
ic ace” 
FY 4 40 FY A ter tee FY 40 
Pe Y © sto sto +0 








Day of 3} Hour of J CONSIDERATIONS 
8th Hour of Da 


LastHr ¥ -69 mins 
Next Hr * +1 mins 


| Pt{ Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
08°v955'46" +12°08' | 301°27" 2704 [21004 
27°T48'40" +00°58' | 226°59' o2"m11 | 02°3<11 
11°92 +01°48' | 237°03" 18°28 | 18°28 
os°T 44 +01°13' | 241712" 24°16 | 24°16 
15°22 +00°30' | 109°09" 14°38 | 14°38 
03°02 +00°13' | 178°30" 26°58 | 26°958 
24°T'25 +00°08' | 27°40" 05°35 | 05°35 





26°8218 R. -00°03' | 083°17" 03°42 | 03°42 
26°18 R, -00°03' | 263°17" 03°42 | 03°b 42 
O91 04'16" +00°00' | 076°4?" 20°T'56 | 20°=56 
02°0 20°27" +00°00' | 180°00" 27340 | 27°) 40 
20°11 +00°00' | 204°29' 09°649 | O9°s<49 


xi 


27° $) O00" [Fixed Stars COC 
© o MIRFAK Hon. Aquaintance 
Q # REGULUS#*« Commerce 
® o DUBHE Love 

Sons 

Plays 

Sons 

Plays 

Merchandise 

Fortune 

Spirit 


S3HE3SRBEDS 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES ([PTOLEMY, 
| Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
D+/0 -- +1 


Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 
Trip- Term 

Trip-Face 

Term-Term 


— 


+ + 


Lilly 286 

Horary Chart (12) oan ON! 
May 18 1645 NS ee 
6:10 pm LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' O00%W'10' 


oc Oy ff ost PY st de tO FE FL 


»)] 
oO 
¥ 
g 
é 
» 
h 
R 
8 
As 
He 
& 


at sto ©) stio pe stay Pe a 


Day of 3 Hour of 9 CONSIDERATIONS 


2 <= Last Hr ©) -63 mins Moon is Slow 
[Pt] Long | Decl | Travel [Azi(ON)] Alt | Antiscia | CAnt | Lat _| Next Hr +15 mins 
27°ax36'11" +13°03' | 358°53' 02°24 | 02° 24 
27°00 5613" +00°58' | 285°74' 02°8304 | 02°a<04 
14°55 +01°48' | 275°36" 15°05 | 15905 
13°051 +01°13'| 292°49' 16°S9909 | 16°s<09 
01°S)59 +00°33' | 221°35' 2e°001 | 28°m01 
09°56 +00°14'| 277°00' 20°04 | 20°04 
28°T'15 +00°O?" | 301°11' O1m4s | OH AS 
23°25 +00°00' | 185°30" 06°35 | 6°35 
23°Ax25 +00°00' | 005°30' O6°35 | 06°35 
11°31 '07" +00°00' | 115°07" 18°ax29 | 18°29 
26°59'41" +00°00' | 180°00" 03°00 | 03°m,00 
11°8911 +00°00' | 205°40' 18°049 | 18°49 





Xil 


27° $) O00" [Fixed Stars COC 
© o MIRFAK Hon. Aquaintance 
Q # REGULUS#*« Commerce 
® o DUBHE Love 

Sons 

Plays 

Sons 

Plays 

Merchandise 

Fortune 

Spirit 


° 
° 
° 
° 
o 
o 
° 
o° 
o 
° 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES ([PTOLEMY, 
| Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
D+/0 -- +1 


Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 
Trip- Term 

Trip-Face 

Term-Term 


— 


+ + 







Lilly 286 
Horary Chart (12) oan ON! 
May 18 1645 NS ee 
6:10 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00%W'10' 


QEFaostr_ocmOy 
yon Oy ff fe st PY st 4c tO TF 
at st40 GO) sto fst Oy Ee oy 


Day of 3 Hour of 9 CONSIDERATIONS 


Last Hr ©) -63 mins i 
[Pt] Long | Decl | Travel [Aai(ON]| AR | Anticia | CAn [ Lat_] Newt s1Smirg | Coes See 


27°2636'11" +13°03' | 358°53' 02°24 | 02°b 24 
27°10 5613" +00°58' | 285°1 4 02°S204 | 02°a<04 
14°055 +01°48' | 275°36" 15305 | 15°305 
13°051 +01°13'| 292°49' 16°8209 | 16°a<09 
01°S359 +00°33' | 221°35' 28°01 | 28°m,01 
09°56 +00°14'| 277°00' 20°04 | 20°304 
28°T15 +00°0?" | 301°11' Om 45 | 01H 45 
23°8)25 +00°00' | 185°30' 06°35 | 06°35 
23°25 +00°00' | 005°30' 06°35 | 06°b 35 
11°M31'0?" +00°00' | 115°0?" 18°4%29 | 18°S329 
26°S959'41" +00°00') 180°00' 03°b00 | 03°M.00 
11°8)11 +00°00' | 205°40' 18°049 | 18°49 





xlll 


aa 3 16" MOONASPECTS || [Fixed Stars | Orb Arabic Parts | Ot 
Do W 1447'S # ALTAIR Fy 
Do As 7580'S DIADEM 


Sickness 
o® Catastrophe 
Doe ff 26S HAMAL o® Understanding 
yx 8 O1O'S CASTOR o® Merchandise 
DIADEM o Fortune 
ALCYONE o® Land Journeys 
ZOSMA, -- 
SPICAx** 


MUT. RECEPTIONS 
Ruler-Ruler || |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt | Trp | Term | Face | Deti | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Exalt 2 4 2 +5 
Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler-Face 

Exalt- Term 

Exalt-Face 

T 

T 


+ 


tip- Term 
fip-Face 


Lilly 289 

Horary Chart (13) . . 
Jul 26 1645 NS 23° Mh 16 
7:31 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' 000°W 10" 





SEF aor ry_iowy 


h 
3 
h 
iM 
10) 
¥ 
4 
8 
10] 
h 
h 


Ey OY © sta YY ot ot ot 


Day of ¥ Hour of CONSIDERATIONS 
3rd Hour of Da 


Last Hr }) -35 mins 
Next Hr 4 +42 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl | Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt._| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
14° 46'49"| +08°06' | +13°08" | 069°22" TST13 [15213 
03°S)24'53"| +19°26"| +00°57" | 093°59" 26°H35 | 26°35 
14°37 | +21°45'| +01°21"| 109°37" 15°23 | 15°23 
08°02 | +19°29'| +01°14"| 089°55" 21°B58 | 21°1L58 
12°31 | +07°41"| +00°37"| 071°45" 17729 | 17°29 
25°18 =| +23°02"| +00°12'| 132°26" o4°B42 | 04°G42 
03°653 | +10°29'| +00°02'| 214°51" 26°07 | 26°07 





19°8)23 +15°02' | +00°01' | 084°30' 10°03? | 10°37 
19°23 -15°02' | +00°01' | 264°30' 10°M3? | 10°37 
06°F 49'06") +09°02' | +00°00' | 075°24" 27711 | 23°11 
29° 15'31"| +20°02'| +00°00' | 180°00' 00°S244 | O0°s<44 
18°11 -05°03' | +00°00' | 049°07" 11°H49 | 11°49 


Xiv 


a1? 0 23" [FixedStars |S ff Arabic Parts sO 
¥ o CAPELLA o° Fatality 

o PHACT o Mariage 
BELLATRIX =* o Merchandise 
SUALOCIN o® Merchandise 
ALGOL--- o Fortune 
DENEBOLA, 
CASTOR 
ALCYONE 


ALDEBARAN *#* 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
| Pt| Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Tem | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
8 +6 






Ruler-Trip »)] c 
Ruler-Face Oo rh g 
Exalt-Term 8 g c 
Exalt-Face 2 x | k 
Trip-Term c 4 »)) 
Trip-Term 4 8 8 
Trip-Face h Es Dm 
Q hk | k 
3 h 2 
8 : at 
orary Char = ; : 
Jun oe 646 NS O1" Ma 23 8 i zg 
7:35 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 


§1°N30' 000°W10' 
Day of $ Hour of CONSIDERATIONS 


— Last Hr} -61 mins Moon is Slow 

PEC] —Tang —] Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anes | Cant] Ta 

27° 71817") -20°33' | +11°50!' | 282°09' 02°j42 | 02°42 
05° 30'S1") +23°22' | +00°57"' | 092°28" 24°29 | 24°429 
16° 23 +18°47"| +00°24'| 114°21' ISBI? | 13°37 
20°21 +14°35'| +00°52' | 149°43' 09°6939 | O9°s<39 
17°43 +16°27"| +00°43' | 153°46' 12°2Q17 | 12°ax1? 
14°345 +22°61'| +00°13' | 085°04' 15°15 | 15°415 
14037 +14°08'| +00°06' | 158°44" 15°23 | 15°a%23 
01°S204R | +19°58'| -00°03' | 074°13' 28°56 | 28°56 
O1°as04 R, | -19°58"| -00°03' | 254°13' 28°56 | 28°0 56 
17°8923'15"| +15°39'| +00°00' | 064°19' 12°03? | 12°37 
01° 22'34") +11°59'| +00°00'| 180°00" 28°SI37 | 28°ax37 
Oge11 -15°11' | +00°00' | 251°34' 20°m49 | 20°b 49 





o;ao Oo 
2553/05 20 2ad7 

Z 
osoy 


QFFaDsrerrAawKgd 
| | [gol | [es] [Bsj+o 


XV 





11° Too Fined Stas ‘(| Om [[MabePans «Y= 
¥ o BELLATRIX * a°3e' Daughters 
4% # ALCYONE o°o2" Brethren 


25 Discord 
Me of RIGEL ** 0°52 Fai 


Water Journeys 
Brethren 

Love 

Love 
Sickness 
Danger or Peril 
Fortune 






MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Exalt oO +5 
Ruler-T erm 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Exalt 
Exalt-Trip 
E 
E 


xalt-Trip 
xalt-Face 


D ¢ 
8% © 
4 2 
Dd ¢ 
dD’ 
QO 8 
h D 
yD _* 


mr iE Ore) 


Lilly 389 
Horary Chart (15) 
Jun 21 1646 NS 
10:39 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00"W'10' 


SEF aor ry_owoy 
40 ff oot chee ede FY HOT, 
PE © tA FAA EY 


By 400 | 





11° 4 00 










Day of 3 Hour of J CONSIDERATIONS 


6th Hour of Da Moon in via combusta 
LastHr ¥ -O mins Moon is Slow 
Next Hr * +82 mins 


z>| |e 
| |O 





| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
15°=37'53"| -01°32'| +12°49' | 060°27" 1#H22 [14°22 
29°11 54'44"| +23°29' | +00°57"| 142°55' oo°'B05 | 00°05 
15°24. | +19°12'| -00°04' | 170°59" 14°B36 | 14°W§36 
15°U30 | +13°22'| +00°48" | 217°32 14°8230 | 14°4230 
13°631 | +15°11"| +00°43"| 22°09" 16°29 | 16°2829 
13°27 | +22°59'| +00°13"] 129°04" 16°33 | 16°33 


14°02 +13°58"| +00°06' | 220°11' 15°58 | 15°a<58 
O1°s327 RK | +19°52"| -00°02'| 105°57" 28°33 | 28°33 
O1ae2? R. | -19°52'| -00°02' | 285°57" 28°33 | 28°33 
15° 30'43") +05°43' | +00°00' | 080°47" 14T29 | 14°29 
11°T00'28") +22°08" | +00°00' | 180°00" 1¥BO0 | 19°300 
O1°vg14 -18°28' | +00°00' | 324°19' 28°446 | 28°46 





Me 
| |® 





@) [kd od | detehiml | 


Xvi 


MOON ASPECTS 
px eo 55S 
yA ods 
DOh 2OTA 
Do  12°41'A 


20° *% 32! 


Fixed Stars 

od # SCHEAT 

X% =o ALCYONE 

23 of FOMALHAUT =** 
MH. “# ZUBEN ELGENUBI 


[Arabic Parts Or 
z 


Spirit asd" 
Merchandise 

Plays 

Goods 

Bondage 

Death 


MUT. RECEPTIONS 
* oft Ruler-Trip 
% + Ruler-Term 
co ¥ Ruler-Term 
D X& Exalt-Exalt 
co $3 Exalt-Term 
od $2 Exalt-Face 
% + Trip-Term 
D ¥ Temm-Face 

Lilly 390 

Horary Chart (16 . : 

Her ei Sindhi Be 

10:30 am LMT +0:00:40 

, England 






§1°N30' 000°W10' 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON}| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
TPe1970" +13°31' [039°32'|-13°21 | 12041 [12°41 
17°3414'44" +01°00' | 150°41"| +29°27'| 12°45 | 12°45 
27°2006 Re ~00°10'| 173°36'| +27°26'| 02°54 | 02°54 
15°25 +01°13'] 185°03'| +21°39'| 14°35 | 14° 35 
26°54 +00°22' | 049°30"| +01°55'| 03°06 | 03°06 
25°29 +00°09' | 077°56"| +14°12'| 04°S231 | 04°23 
+00°O7' | 114°43'| +25°01'| 10°40 | 10°40 
+00°O1' | 351°36'| -26°07'| 01°32 | O1°M32 
+00°01"'| 171°36'| +26°07"| O1°M32 | 01° 32 
+00°00'| 050°18'| -00°00'| 03°43 | 03°443 
+00°00' | 180°00"| +23°49'| 09°M.28 | 09° 28 
+00°00' | 285°28" | -29°51'| 03°38 _| 03°38 


19°T20 
28°28 
28°2828 


26° 1711" 
20°2%31'35" 
26°22 





QFFrFanxrrxawcd 


Xvil 


Danger or Peril 
Discord 

Goods 
Bondage 
Death 

Danger or Peril 
Fortune 
Understanding 


oe 
o 
oe 
a 
og 
rae 
oe 
og 
oe 
oe 
ad 
o 
og 
oe 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY 
| Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Deti | Fall_| Score | 
c 


+ + 


SEF aor ry_owoy 
at ot ot tO +0 st st stto 
By PA A doe SH 40 Dy toe 0c 
VOrOt+oAyroote 





Day of g* Hour of ® CONSIDERATIONS 
Sth Hour of Da 


LastHr ¥ -10 mins 
Next Hr * +46 mins 








21° Me 27" [Fixed Stars | Orb Arabic Parts Orb 
D ¢ ZOSMA-- 0°36" Il 7 0° Fortune or08" 
© o DENEBOLA 0°45' Qo Fortune o°00" 
*_#_SUALOCIN gros" 















ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
Ruler-Trip | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Term 3 g g 
Ruler- Term 
Ruler-Face 
Ruler-Face 
Trip-Trip 
Trip- Term 
Trip-Face 


+ 


Lilly 392 
Horary Chart (17) 
Sep 8 1646.NS 

4:05 pm LMT +0:04:40 
, England 

51°N30' 001 “W110! 


SEF aor ry_owmy 

SFA st t+ Ow Ov Orie te 

Hor 400 ft at fe ot fe 4c fe 
33 


21° & 2?" 





= — Last Hr 4, -54 mins 

PEC] Tang] Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anos | Can] Ta 
05° 45'05" +14°29' | 262°13'| +21°43'| 24°T15 | 24°15 
15° 5731" +00°58' | 250°47"| +21°32') 14°02 | 14°=02 
12°=03 +01°08' | 222°30' | +23°02'| 17°H 5? | 17°57 
08°S)17 +01°11'| 287°46'| +09°03'| 21°43 | 21°43 
06°12 +00°36' | 317°12'| -03°58'} 23°48 | 23°448 
o0°s24 +00°11'| 295°13'| +06°15'} 29°36 | 29°36 





17°0 55 R, -00°01' | 003°02' | -23°37"| 12°6205 | 12°2205 
00°S213 R -O0°05' | 295°15'| +05°53'| 29°47 | 29°mh4? 
O0°s<13 R. -O0°05')115°15'| -05°53'| 29°47? | 29°47 
16°49 16'26" +00°00' | 127°55'| -00°00'} 13°44 | 13°44 
21°M27'23" +00°00'] 180°00'| +20°20'| 08°ax33 | 08°S)33 
06*y304 +00°00' | 135°54' | +07°02'| 23°.456 | 23°56 









o° Zz 
osog oa23 






® 


XVill 


23° §) OF" 


MOON ASPECTS 
De @ 4's 
p2y% O'S 


[Fixed Stars Orb 


ARCTURUS 
ZOSMA -- 


[Arabic Parts Orb 


o® Merchandise 
o® 8th (Sun on Asc] 


D*XM 247A 
Do BS MWA 


RIGEL ** o 8th(Sun on Asc] 
ALCYONE oy Life 
SIRIUS#** o Fortune 
CANOPUS#« 

REGULUS #* 

ALCYONE 

ALCYONE 

ZUBEN ELGENUBI 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY’ 


MUT. RECEPTIONS 
| Pt | Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
8 


Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler- Term 
Ruler- Term 


D ¥ 
3 D 
? D 
4 © 
od’ © Ruler-Face 
kh D 
4 © 
f 0 


+ 
+ + 


A Fy Dy see gt HAL GO HALO 
+ 


Exalt-Trip 
Trip-Term 
Trip-Face 


Lilly 395 

Horary Chart (18) 
Jun 31647 NS 

4:54 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 


WOW ty OOvw +i +e 
40 PY ot SHO EY ot 40 
40 St 40 te tO, ot ot SH OY PY 


»)] 
oO 
¥ 
g 
é 
4 
h 
R 
8 
As 
Ke 
8 


23° ax OF" 


Day of 3) Hour of 2 
10th Hour of Da 


Last Hr * -54 mins 
Next Hr g@ +26 mins 


CONSIDERATIONS 


Asc in via combusta 
Saturn in 7th House 
Moon is Fast 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt._| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
20°01 25°56"| +21°09'| +14°17" | 24°55" ose34 | osWs4 
12°11 44'44"| +22°22'| +00°57" | 272°32 17°15 | 174915 
25°30 =| +15°16"| +00°05"| 280°38" 04°630 | 04°30 
09°50 | +24°39'| +01°12'| 240°54" 20°10 | 20°10 
25°07 | +14°25'| +00°32'| 176°08" 04°H53 | 04°M53 
05°19 | +19°41"| +00°10'| 209°59" 24°H41 | 24°41 
24°H12 | +16°59'| +00°08" | 283°08" 05°48 | 05"48 
12°56 R. | +22°51"| -00°02' | 249°51" 17004 |17°704 
12°V§56 R, | -22°51'| -00°02"| 063°51" 17704 | 17°04 
08°m53'38"| -14°29'| +00°00"| 113°42 21°06 | 21°06 
23°6206'35"| +13°50" | +00°00"| 180°00" 06°H53 | 06°M53 
16°35 | -18°44"| +00°00'| 110°53" 13°25 | 13°6)25 





QFFrFanxrrAxawcd 


>| [el 
i 


gv 
cf | | bssd fel | 


6 


xix 


14° 48 32" [Fixed Stars SSO] Arabic Parts 
23 o CASTOR O13" WW} 2 oo? Water Journeys 
# ZOSMA -- o°og' W} ® o® Organisation 
® o POLLUX 0°32" 0 Goods 
05's ® o Fortune 
Q 2394 
0 14°53'4 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 

Q of Ruler-Trip | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
9 gf? Ruler-Face D+) 8 Dei [-- +5 

2 Exalt-Exalt 
2 Exalt-Trip 
© Exalt-Trip 
2 Exalt-Term 
10) 
g 


+ 


+ 


Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 


a 


9) 
Q 
z 
¥ 
2 
o 


Qe 1 ttt st ste 










Lilly 397 
Horary Chart (19) “m3 
Feb 20 1638 NS lee 
9:02 am LMT +0:01:32 
, England 

51°N31' OOO*W23' 


et st 40 te ot st VO I PY 40 
Oy 


Hon $40 toe fost ot tee dere 0 


h 
4 
io) 
? 
c 
z 
c 
3 
3 
c 
¥ 


QEF AO rKrAwo«eOyw 
+ 
40 40 40 40 40 St 4040 G) +0 


Day of Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 
3rd Hour of Da 


Last Hr 4 -11 mins 
Next Hr ©) +40 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. _| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
15° 6 06'57" +13°13' | 057°41" 14°6y53 | 14°2x53 
01°€52'23" +01°00' | 130°47" 28°=08 | 28°T08 
18°12 +00°17"| 113°41" W248 [11°17 48 
18°22 +01°00' | 084°03" 11°38 | 11°38 
29°51 +00°30' | 225°03" oorss09 | 00°09 
05°12 R -00°00" | 249°52' 24°ax4g | 24°S248 





O1°ae41 +00°06' | 162°10' 28°19 | 28°019 
15°30 R. -00°02' | 179°32' 15°00 | 15°00 
15°00 R, -00°02' | 359°32" 15°00 | 15°00 
05° 31'10" +00°00' | 068°09' 24°8)29 | 24°ax29 
14°j32'24" +00°00') 180°00' 15°28 | 15°28 
18°46 +00°00' | 355°1 4" 11°14 | 11°14 









Zz g | a 
Me his) | StaoSiq | fokoror] | Me 
Q oO lg o 
oA2d BS 46/35 46 4013 






® 


XX 


20° # 25' MOON ASPECTS || [Fixed Stars S| Orb Arabic Pats sO 
oe CAPULUS--- io] Private Enemies 
DENEB ADIGE Discord 


HAMAL 8th (Sun on Asc] 
SCHEDIR Nobility & Honor 
MENKAR --- Marriage 
DENEBOLA Fortune 
PROCYON 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
Ruler-Exalt |} || Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
-- +4 





Ruler-Term D| ¢ D+ c 
Ruler-Face O|¢7 |O+ g 
Ruler-Face es g g - 
Ruler-Face 9) 2+! 3D re 
Exalt-Trip cf} 4 2 8 
Exalt-Term »| 2 c 
Trip-Term hig |O g 
Q| ¥ 3 4 
3] 4 g 8 
Lilly 399 sl |e : 
Horary Chart (20 . 1 vs 
Apri 1644 NS sa 20" 25 819 Li 
10:16 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 


§1°N30' 000°W10' 
[Saag Hewes] [—consenarions —] 
= — Last Hr % -2? mins 

PRLog] Decl | Travel [AnN]] AR] Arosa | Cant] Tat Pee 
07° 0 30'58" +15°04') 121°40' 22°29 | 22°a%29 
19°T'05'34" +00°59' | 144°18' 10°54 | 10°H54 
20H? +00°55' | 17°44" 08°=23 | 08°T23 


19°38 +01°12'| 105°48' 10°8)22 | 10°x22 
01°00 +00°46' | 198°59' 2900 | 29°T00 
03°b 22 +00°14'| 125°54' 26°8)38 | 26°2238 


WT 44 +00°08' | 153°38' 18°16 | 18°16 
16°17 34 R, -00°05' | 004°1 4" 13°T26 | 13°26 
16°34 R, -00°05') 184°14" 13°26 | 13°26 
20°%03'18" +00°00' | 053°02' OSS? | 09° 457 
20° 25'28" +00°00' | 180°00' ov=35 | 09°T35 
08°8)29 +00°00' | 041°34' 21°31 | 21°31 





QFFODFKrAWKO 


XXi 








15°) 19' MOON ASPECTS 
Do? @ 3240'S 
Doe M 2174 


[Fixed Stars | SO ff Arabic Parts sO 
8 o DIADEM o°43' Servants 

the Mother 

Imprisonment 

Water Journeys 


Fortune 
Bondage 






UT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY, 
Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Exalt c = 

Ruler-Term ¥ om 
Ruler-T erm Om 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Trip 
Exalt-Face 
Exalt-Face 


= 


1 
109, 
a, 3 


+ 
+ 


io) 
c 
4 
D 
d 
] 
© 
4. 


Py 4 Fy Ay 4o ty 
OstO0Or1Ow 
tot ot Oost ot Fy 400 ot 






Lilly 401 
Horary Chart (21) 
Apr 27 1643 NS 
6:49 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' 00°10! 


SQEFAortry_owy 
OWA wA Yu HY Y10 O) 
PY 40 Fy YY HY HOF, 40 
I) st 40 40 Fy 40 40 st 4 40 


c 
z 
ce 
c 
d 
c 
c 
4 
15° az 19 D 


Day of J} Hour of © CONSIDERATIONS 

12th Hour of Da Moon void of course 
Last Hr g@ -51 mins Asc in via combusta 
NextHr 2 +21 mins Moon is Slow 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt_| Antiscia | CAnt_| Lat._| 
27°6242°52"| +09°20'| +11°49" | 163°59" o2 817 [02 m17 
07° 12'55"| +13°57"| +00°58' | 280°41' 22°47 | 22°47 
10°39 | +01°37"| +00°55" | 301°21" 19°21 | 19°21 
21°06 — | -03°56'| +00°58" | 317°04' os'=54 | 08"TS4 
05°23 | +24°55'| +00°95'| 246714" 24°37 | 24°37 
og°Ts2 | +02°53'| +00°14" | 303°20" 20°mos | 20°08 


02°T'35 -00°5?"| +00°0?" | 307°06" 27°25 | 27 H26 
04°=43 -01°53'| +00°02' | 127°35' 25°H17 | 25°17 
04°T 43 +01°53'| +00°02' | 307°35' 25°17 | 25°17 


03°M32'28") -12°43' | +00°00' | 110°43' 26°28 | 26°S328 
15°S918'48") +16°17"| +00°00' | 180°00" 14041 | 14°M41 
24°en02 -16°30' | +00°00' | 344°02' 05°58 | 05°b58 





XXil 


16° B 16' [Fixed Stars | Orb fArabicParts Orb 
Do fh 80'S ALPHECCA 2 of Understanding 0°20! 
DO® 54'S FOMALHAUT *** oo Spirit 0°54 
ACHERNAR ®& o Fortune 0°00" 
SCHEAT 
FOMALHAUT *** 


CASTOR 
ZOSMA -- 









ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY’ 
Ruler-Exalt Pt] Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Term Dio |-- D+} y 3 >- 
Ruler-Face oO; g af OQ - 
Exalt-Term ¥) 4 »)) 4 g - 
Exalt-Term g | »)) rh »)] 
Exalt-Face d' | ¥ 8 h 4 
Trip-Term %| 8 2 |k ¢ 
Trip-Term hig 4 8 g 
RQ) Oo x | oa 7) 
3] k g Ie oO 
aoe e/> |e |3 |e |e |s 
orary Char 5 : 
Feb 16 1645 NS ie" 16 Blk gi io) 
9:22 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 


51°N30' OO0*W'10' 
Day of & Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 
4th Hour of Night Moon in via combusta 


PR] —Tang | Decl | Travel [An] AR] Antes | CA] Ta oe 
08°m,09'48" +11°53' | 080°22" 21°ae60 | 21°S)50 
28°ax39'22" +01°00' | 302°41' O1m21 | 01°21 
10°59 R, -00°22' | 297°11' 1Ws01 }19°T01 
22°4§50 +01°13'| 347°21' oF 10 | 07°10 
21°03 +00°15' | 229°59' OS'S57 | 08357 
23° 008 +00°06" | 254°45° 06°S352 | O6°s<52 
eri +00°06' | 273°30' 12°39 | 12°H39 
28°81 R -00°00' | 122°48' od29 | 01°29 
28°A%31 R -00°00' | 302°48' O1m29 | 01°b29 
12°=26'17" +00°00' | 097°56" TPHS4 | 17°34 
16° 1619" +00°00' | 180°00" 1344 | 13°44 
02°56 +00°00' | 324°53' 27°m04 | 27°b04 





Me 
| |® 





@d | | | | tt td 


XXiil 


Lilly 417 
Horary Chart (23) 
Apr 25 1645 NS 
1:09 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00"W'10' 


| Pt| Long | Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt_| Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat._| 


26°T 44°11" 
05° 8 32'29" 
26°T 44 
15°T 27 
19°27 
04° 44 


29725 
25°S258 R. 
25°A058 R, 
02°1# 39'26" 
23° 29'13" 


23°8)51 


+15°09' 
+00°58' 
+02°01' 
+01°13' 
+00°31' 
+00°13' 
+00°08' 
-00°09' 
-00°09' 
+00°00" 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 











213°00' 
207°12' 
215°46' 
225°33' 
og7*21' 
159°00' 
216°11' 
O76°25' 
256°25' 
072°54' 
180°00' 
081°18' 


23° 5 29' 


23° fk 29° 


03°16 
24°6)28 
03°16 
14°33 
10°33 
25°216 
04°35 
o4°u02 
o4°m02 
arpa 
06°S)31 
06° ¥09 









® 


XXIV 


# PROCYON 


[Arabic Parts Orb 
c 


o ALDEBARAN *=* 4 
o MIRACH 
# RAS ALHAGUE 
o& THUBAN 


Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler-Trip 

Ruler-Trip 

Ruler-T erm 
Ruler-Face 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Exalt 


7 


Be 
[=] 


meries| | | | 


A gy |ePloe Q 
bSs3 2407|2A07/8A48 


SEFAaorry_owy 


As 
8 


PY ate Fy AY ter tee de 40 at 


Day of g* Hour of 2 
7th Hour of Da 


Last Hr % -71 mins 
Next Hr 7 +0 mins 


° 
ca 
oe 
ca 
oe 


Mariage 


8th (Sun on Asc} 


Servants 
Faith 
Fortune 
Commerce 


+E 40 
' 


+ 


sey © att Y st +0 40D 4+0 


Sy tO te to P40 O +0 


CONSIDERATIONS 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY’ 
| Pt | Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Deti | Fall_| Score | 
h +9 


Asc near sign boundary 
Moon void of course 


Moon is Fast 









T ers 





T oy 


o 08' R 


Lilly 419 
Horary Chart (24) 
Dec 13 1644NS 
2:19 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00"W'10' 


[Pt] Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat_| 


20°11 58'39"} +18°27" 
22° 419'01"} -23°16' 
OF 447 -21°14' 
06°08 -11°02' 


27°52 R. | +26°29' 
27008 R | +17°38' 


14°T01 R | +03°0?" 
O1WOS Rk | +11°07" 
01305 R | -11°0?" 
25°09 58'49"} +19°17" 
25°49 34'00"} - 21°04" 
24°38 -23°33' 


+14°49' 
+01°01' 
+01°30' 
+01°06" 
-00°24' 
-00°06' 
-00°00' 
-00°11' 
-00°11' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 


25° 49 34" 


035°53' 
213°03' 
227°01' 
257°32' 
026°47" 
060°58' 
098°48' 
322°31' 
142°31' 
057°5?" 
180°00' 
237°34' 


25° B 34! 





oy e201 
ore 
22°18 13 
23°ax52 
02°08 
06°S)52 
15°59 
29° 755 
29°55 
04°01 
04° 726 


05° 2. 


22 


O90 
ores 
22°13 
23°8)52 
o2"408 
O62 
15459 
28°55 
28°T55 
04°ax01 
04°26 
05°6)22 





Fixed Stars 


ACRUX 


DENEB ADIGE 


# DIADEM 


oY 
of 


UT. RECEPTIONS 
Ruler-Trip 


Ruler-T erm 
Exalt-Term 


rf 
? 
10) 
© Exalt-Face 
g 
19) 
10) 
ul 


= 


Trip- Term 
Trip- Term 
Trip-Face 
Term-Face 


Ost st YY stot gy ot 


QFFrFanxrrxawxcd 


XXV 


ALCYONE 
TOLIMAN 


SQEFaortry_oway 


ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY 
SS a Sa a oe eo 


Oy sto te FW tose QP PY te 
Www OwD | SSH 
Hon tot 40 4c te tH OP st 40 


Day of g* Hour of 9 
10th Hour of Da 


Last Hr ©) -29 mins 
NextHr +9 mins 


+ 


wOt FOO FONMC IO 


CONSIDERATIONS 
[MoonisFast_ | 


#3 


3 


40 eA FY dee FX 40 FD fH 40 Hee 4 JY 


[Arabic Parts Orb 


4% of Merchandise 10" 
® o Fortune ooo" 












10° Mh 20" [Fixed Stars | Orb Arabic Parts Orb 
D o DUBHE Sudden Advanceme 


io] DISDEM Commerce 
2 SUALOCIN Daughters 
REGULUS#** Nobility & Honor 
4 POLLUX Nobility & Honor 
ZOSMA, -- Life 
ZUBEN ELGENUBI Fortune 
Bondage 


Ruler-Face || |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trp | Term | Face | Det | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Face 3 4 -- 

Exalt-Term 
Trip-Term 
Trip- Term 
Trip-Face 
Term-Face 
Face-Face 


at 


+ 
3 


3 
hod HO tat tec toe gt OY ot ot ot 





Lilly 421 
Horary Chart (25) a , 
Jul 25 1634 NS ee as 
6:18 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00"W'10' 


SQEFAQostrA_oWwOy 
SY see EY OOOO 
fH J 40 SH de tee PY fH 40 
OL OY toc Fy tet tor gt GY, Pt 
Pte 404K WO | 


Day of g* Hour of ¥ CONSIDERATIONS 
11th Hour of Da 


LastHr @ -61 mins 
Next Hr 3) +17 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt._| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
10°6244'34" +11°58' | 278°38" TH81S [IIMS 
02°6)33'33" +00°57' | 284°48" 27°826 | 27°M26 
16°6)25 +01°50' | 272°21' 13°835 | 13°M35 
24°40 +01°13' | 264°03" 05°820 | 05°m.20 
15°47 +00°35' | 206°49" 14°13 [14°13 
17°27 +00°13' | 299°27" 12°33 | 12°33 





15° 425 R, -00°02' | 145°46' 14°§35 | 14°35 
21°20 R. -00°07" | 054°44" 0s°=40 | 08°T 40 
21°20 R. - 00°07" | 234°44 osT40 | 08°=40 
04°¥§32'00" +00°00' | 129°39' 25°728 | 25° 28 
10°M20'24" +00°00' | 180°00" 19°240 | 19°6240 
12°43 +00°00' | 120°54' Al? [10 





|_| Me 
aufero] 


XXVI 


10° 11 Fixed Stars [ArsbioPans [Orb 
o THUBAN Understanding 
# DIADEM Bondage 
o ALGOL--- Servants 


Inheritances 
Profession 
Inheritances 
Profession 
Imprisonment 
Fortune 

Life 

Sons 


@ 4 Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
2 & Ruler-Trip 
th @ Exalt-Face 
hh Y Trip-Face 
od & Temm-Term 
od & Temm-Face 
h oo’ Term-Face 
dh Face-Face 


+ 


| YOO st+o+wws+0 | 


Lilly 436 

Horary Chart (26) *m 44! 
Feb 5 1643 NS wen 
3:43 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 





SEF aor ry_owy 
Oy FAIL A dO PY PY 40 YY ot St 40 


Day of 3 Hour of © CONSIDERATIONS 
3rd Hour of Da 


Last Hr 7? -32 mins 
Next Hr 2 +14 mins 






| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_| Lat._| 
Os 1254"| +07°45 | +11°50" | 304°46'| -15°22'| 26°47 | 26°47 
16°¢32'42"| -15°55' | +01°01'| 142°16'| +14°56'] 13°27 | 19°0 27 
astat6 | -20°11'| 01°41] 150°57"| +13°96"| 21°M44 | 21°H 44 
04°16 R | -03°28'| -00°23'| 122°55'| +19°18"| 25°44 | 25°14 
20°42 | +19°95'| +00°29'| 049°19'| -05°03"| O9"sy18 | OS"sx18 
20°37 | -04°46"| +00°13'| 108°10'| +08°01'| 09°=23 | 09°23 


ze 
= 
i 


22°52 -04°47"| +00°06' | 106°11'} +06°33'| O7°=08 | OF°T08 
06°=00R. | -02°23'| -00°06' | 272°52'| -05°20'| 24°H 00 | 24°00 
O6°T00R, | +02°23') -00°06" | 092°52'| +05°20'| 24°00 | 24°00 
25°T'42'15"| +09°57"| +00°00' | 073°53') -O0°00'| 04°18 | 04°18 
10°¥§10'39"| -23°06' | +00°00' | 180°00' | +15°24") 19°49 | 19°49 
12°22 -18°13' | +00°00' | 237°05' | +01°51'| 17°38 | 17°S938 


1 [t | ey | ly 
=o 


ze 
Be 





4406 


Ea 
Al 


XXVil 


02° \§ o4' [Fixed Stars sd) Arabic Parts Cs 
© o REGULUSs*« % o the Father or14' 
% o DUBHE % 0? Daughters 0°28" 
cd o ALDEBARAN =** ® o Fortune o°o0' 
3. # RIGEL ** 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY, 

Q % Exalt-Face a 
th Y Trip-Face 
2 +t Tem-Face 
X% of? Term-Face 
h § Temm-Face 
D 


Face-Face 


+e 








Lilly 437 
Horary Chart (27) om na 
Aug 16 1644.NS eM 
8:26 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' 000°W10" 


SQEFaostr_oWemOy 
FA OQ OWD 

Hoe a ft fH ee tee FH 
Sy ket 40 40 fH 40 TF fF tt 


Day of g* Hour of 2 CONSIDERATIONS 
2nd Hour of Night 


Last Hr * -24 mins 
Next Hr 7@ +24 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. | Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
O7"2<55'26" +14°00 | 142°43'| +15°16 | 22705 | 22°805 
24°9)19'25" +00°58' | 306°38'| -09°50"| 05°41 | O5°741 
09°19 +01°44'| 321°50'| -11°37"| 20°41 | 20°T41 
01°39 +00°23' | 268°58"| -05°27'| 28421 | 28°21 
04°24 +00°36' | 029°35'| -13°51'| 25°36 | 25°36 
29°0 37 +00°06" | 033°27'| -13°09'| 00°S223 | 00°23 


20°T'39 R. -00°02' | 072°28'| -06°30') 09°21 | OFH21 
OF 152 R. -00°01' | 293°16'| -06°54"| 22°T'08 | 22°=08 
O7*H62 R, -00°01') 113°16'| +06°54"| 22°=08 | 22°T08 
05°T'24'49" +00°00' | 086°32'| +00°00'| 24°35 | 24°35 
02°yg04'11" +00°00') 180°00'| +15°02'| 27°.456 | 27°56 
21°49 +00°00' | 250°01'| +01°39'| 08°11 | 08°11 





Q@FFCDFSrAW KO 


XXVill 


12° 0 57" 


ALPHERATZ o Land Journeys 
MENKAR --- 0° Discord 
POLLUX o Friends 
DENEBOLA, 0° Goods 
ZOSMA -- o Fortune 


Q @* Ruler-Trip Term | Face 
2 oft Ruler-Term 
X% =D Ruler-Term 
D * Exalt-Exalt 
* =D Exalt-Trip 
D * Exalt-Face 
kh D 
Dk 


3 


3 
Hor fF tet FY, ot St 40 4 40 FY 


+ 3 


Exalt-Face 
Trip-Face 


3 +t 







Lilly 439 
Horary Chart (28) . ! 
Mar 21 1647 NS Lodi ated 
4:50 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 


DEF ADS Hr ywKOu|2 
mine | 
40 Dee QW PE EY OW + 
Cy Ay 40 Fy tor tes te te Q AY, gt 


Day of 3 Hour of 9 CONSIDERATIONS 
11th Hour of Da 


Last Hr ©) -41 mins 
NextHr ¢ +19 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. _| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
13=4604" +14°23' | 063°28" Tex14 [IEW14 
00"T'55'36" +00°59' | 254°52' 2a°mo4 | 29°04 
20°3425 +01°51' | 259°15" og°=35 | 09°T35 
os"T'03 +01°14' | 249°32" 20°51 | 20°51 
25°39 +00°11"| 109°31" o4°n21 | 04721 
28°S35 R -00°01" | 109°26" 0125 | 01725 





15° 004 +00°06' | 221°54' 14°S)56 | 14°ax56 
18°58 R. -00°11') 119°23' 11°02 | 11°02 
18°4358 R, -00°11'| 299°23' 11°02 | 11°02 
16°1R'58'42" +00°00' | 081°42' ITO |13°=01 
12° 57"19" +00°00' | 180°00" 1?°BO3 | 17°303 
29449 +00°00' | 259°55' oo°=11 | o00°r 11 





XXIX 


Lilly 442 

Horary Chart (29) 
Jun 6 1647 NS 
10:38 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' 00°10" 


| Pt{| Long | Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat._| 


00°s)0019" 
15°21'51" 
25° 59 
13°08 


26°S)35 
05°S)47 


24°32 
12°55 
12°4j55 
04°F 48'04" 
26° 28'27" 
1927 


+14°30! 
+00°5?" 
+00°1?" 
+01°12' 
+00°32' 
+00°10' 
+00°0?" 
+00°01' 
+00°01' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 


26° © 28! 


26° fh 28 


092°30' 
144°20' 
W791 
105°46' 
OF7*21' 
089°31' 
182°32' 
107°33' 
287°33' 
OF4°11' 
180°00' 
045°42" 


+30°09 
+57°19 
+53°48" 
+43°18 
+07°42 
424°57 
+55°33 
+42°21" 
~42°21' 
+00°00" 
+57°54' 
-35°59 


oor 00 
14°38 
04°01 
16°52 
03°25 
24°13 
05°S)28 
17°05 
17°705 
25112 
03°6)32 
10°33 





00° 400 
14°\§38 
04°ae01 
16°52 
03°25 
24°M13 
05°28 
17°05 
17°05 
25°12 
03°x32 
10°33 





[Fixed Stars | SO ff Arabic Parts sO 
Doe § OOS HAMAL 3D o® Sudden Advanceme 
DeOQ W224 BELLATRIX = cd’ o Organisation 
Do ¥ SATA ALCYONE ® o Fortune 

DIADEM o Bondage 

ALCYONE 

ALCYONE 

DIADEM 

MIRFAK 

ARCTURUS 

SPICAxx* 


¥ @ Ruler-Term LPt| Fuler} Exalt| Trip | Tem | Face | Det | Fall | Score | 
% 2 Ruler-Face 
© Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 


»)] 
»)] 
2 Trip-Term 
g 
10) 


+ 
+ 


Trip-Face 


c 
h 
h 
3 
3g 
c Trip-Face 


SEFanotra_weOy 
Hoe Oy doc PY PY ot ot OY 400 at +0 oot 
+ 
ast ot) Fy 4c ot oH OY 400 oH GY oot 
+ 
Oy Op tet HOY ot ot ot OL pe ot 


Day of & Hour of J CONSIDERATIONS 
6th Hour of Da 


LastHr % -1 mins 
Next Hr * +80 mins 





XXX 


Lilly 442 

Horary Chart (29) 
Jun 6 1647 NS 
10:38 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' 00°10" 


| Pt{| Long | Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt Antiscia | C.Ant_ | Lat._| 


00°s)0019" 
15°21'51" 
25° 59 
13°08 


26°S)35 
05°S)47 


24°32 
12°55 
12°4j55 
04°F 48'04" 
26° 28'27" 
1927 


+14°30! 
+00°5?" 
+00°1?" 
+01°12' 
+00°32' 
+00°10' 
+00°0?" 
+00°01' 
+00°01' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 
+00°00' 


26° © 28! 


26° fh 28 


092°30' 
144°20' 
W791 
105°46' 
OF7*21' 
089°31' 
182°32' 
107°33' 
287°33' 
OF4°11' 
180°00' 
045°42" 


+30°09 
+57°19 
+53°48" 
+43°18 
+07°42 
424°57 
+55°33 
+42°21" 
~42°21' 
+00°00" 
+57°54' 
-35°59 


oor 00 
14°38 
04°01 
16°52 
03°25 
24°13 
05°S)28 
17°05 
17°705 
25112 
03°6)32 
10°33 





00° 400 
14°\§38 
04°ae01 
16°52 
03°25 
24°M13 
05°28 
17°05 
17°05 
25°12 
03°x32 
10°33 





[Fixed Stars | SO ff Arabic Parts sO 
Doe § OOS HAMAL 3D o® Sudden Advanceme 
DeOQ W224 BELLATRIX = cd’ o Organisation 
Do ¥ SATA ALCYONE ® o Fortune 

DIADEM o Bondage 

ALCYONE 

ALCYONE 

DIADEM 

MIRFAK 

ARCTURUS 

SPICAxx* 


¥ @ Ruler-Term LPt| Fuler} Exalt| Trip | Tem | Face | Det | Fall | Score | 
% 2 Ruler-Face 
© Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 


»)] 
»)] 
2 Trip-Term 
g 
10) 


+ 
+ 


Trip-Face 


c 
h 
h 
3 
3g 
c Trip-Face 


SEFanotra_weOy 
Hoe Oy doc PY PY ot ot OY 400 at +0 oot 
+ 
ast ot) Fy 4c ot oH OY 400 oH GY oot 
+ 
Oy Op tet HOY ot ot ot OL pe ot 


Day of & Hour of J CONSIDERATIONS 
6th Hour of Da 


LastHr % -1 mins 
Next Hr * +80 mins 





XXXI 


09° fh 34" [Arabic Parts Ors 
SIRIUS#** Commerce 
CANOPUS#* Treachery 
RaS ALHAGUE Faith 
ACUMEN Land Journeys 
HAMAL Bondage 
SCHEDIR Fortune 
ACHERNAR Daughters 
FACIES --- 
ZUBEN ELGENUBI 
ALDEBARAN =#* 


@  Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt | Trip | Term | Face | Detri | 

2 * Ruler-Trip 4 2 h 

23 Exalt-Exalt 
23 Exalt-Trip 
2 Exalt-Trip 
2 Exalt-Term 
3 
ul 


=) 
+ 


3 


+ 


+ 


Exalt-Face + 


oO 
oO 
h 
h 
oO 
9 Trip- Trip 





Lilly 452 
Horary Chart (30) a ' 
Dec 8 1642 NS oe 
9:20 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 


St 40 40 te fH 40 Ht SH 
3s tf 


») 
h 
? 
3 
4 
4 
h 
10) 
4 
c 
d 


QEFAQostry_oWceOy 
tt Fst FV top P40 ot PY PY 


Pong] Decl | Travel [An] AR] nose Can] Ta 
09°58'03" +12°15' | 3017°51' 20°02 | 20°02 
16° 429'28" +01°01'| 144°50! 13°j31 | 13°31 
23° 739 R. -01°10'| 138°06" 06321 | 06°21 
03°46 +01°O1') 104°13' 26°14 | 26°14 
02°13 +00°03' | 008°01' 2P O47 | 2? and? 
10°H15 +00°0?" | 066°42' 19°45 | 19°T45 


18°30 +00°02' | 057°36' 11°30 | 11°30 
12°=06 R. -00°12' | 210°09' THES | 17°54 
12°T'06 R. -00°12' | 030°09' 17°54 | 1 HOS 
03°¥§48'02" +00°00' | 129°42"' 26°12 | 26°12 
09°M.33'59" +00°00') 180°00" 20°26 | 20°S)26 
2rBlF +00°00' | 286°41' 02°43 | 02°43 







eo [| | | | |¥ 
Es 


oO 
2a08} 
o;A 

2a08|4S 23 

a 

BS 10 q 

Me Z/O;oeP/A 

0 OSSGSAdS|7A21)0S41 










Me 
| |@ 





XXXil 


05° & 27" [FivedStars Csr ff Arabic Parts sO 
% # ALTAIR Brethren 
Q # SPICAx«« Life 
do PHACT the Father 
i; o DIADEM Increase 
Bondage 
Bondage 
Bondage 
Death 
Fortune 


o° 
° 
° 
° 
o 
oe 
a 
o 
o 


¥ 7 Ruler-Ruler | |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri| Fall | Score | 
2 + Ruler-Exalt +6 

* Ruler-Trip 
2 Exalt-Trip 
* Trip-Trip 
2 Trip-Face 
h 
rh 


+ 


Ay 
+ 


+7 


3 
- 
40 40 tO) sto Ot st OO 40 
3 + 


3 
OO, st stot 40 Cy 4040 40 


3 
+ 


Qe stot OD | OOF 


Trip-Face 
Term-Term 


+ +33 


OQ roms Qe Waw © 


g 
h 
? 
d 
c 
2 







Lilly 455 
Horary Chart (31) . 1 
Mar 28 1643 NS inl 
6:00 pm LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' OO0"W'10' 


at tt 40 Dy to PY Fy tee: ot CO ts 
oA + Ose CR | stot ay 


SQEFraorry_owmay 







Day of % Hour of 9 CONSIDERATIONS 


= Last Hr ©) -42 mins Moan is Slow 

PE] —Tong—] Decl | Travel [An] AR] nies | CA] Tat 

25° 24'06" +11°59'] 147°37" 0436 | 04°36 
O7°T'51'56" +00°59' | 270°56' 22°08 | 22°08 
IFT? R. -00°41'| 277716" 16°53 | 16°53 
26°ax32 +00°36' | 296°01' 03°28 | 03°b 28 
17°59 +00°34' | 215°52' 12601 | 12°301 
02°T 46 +00°15' | 272°23' 27°14 | 27°H14 
2902 +00°07' | 273°15' oo°=58 | 0O°T5s o° | o° 

05°=06 +00°00' | 092°15' 24454 | 24°54 Q 
05°06 +00°00'| 272°15' 24754 | 2493454 | |KealeKoal 103 
04°=11'00" +00°00' | 092°41' 25°49 | 25°49 
05° 2641" +00°00' | 180°00" 241133 | 24°33 
21°) 43 +00°00' | 323°42" 08°17 | 08°17 















o 
@lsi | | | | | | | | | |e 


XXXiil 


17° # 16 MOON ASPECTS } || Fixed Stars 


Doe f 12°04'S SIRIUS##* Life 
Doe ft 54'S RAS ALHAGUE the Mother 
yO h O55'S HAMAL Life 


the Mother 
a tog Hon Aquaintance 


Hon Aquaintance 
Commerce 
Discord 

Fortune 

Bondage 
Servants 


ZOSMA, -- 


@ * Ruler-Ruler | |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri| Fall | Score | 
2 + Ruler-Trip 4 h -- 

+ Ruler-Term 9m) - 

Ruler- Term 
Trip- Term 
Trip- Term 
Term-Term 
Face-Face 


3 
3 


ht toc ot ted HOY ot oH 


: 
hg - 
eh ¢ 
9 = 
eh 
om: 


3 


Orie Owe stot O40 


Lilly 467 

Horary Chart (32) " 1 
Jan 21 1647 NS bis 
3:10 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 





QEFAQostry_owmOy 
at 40 doe Fy 40 400 gt ot ot ot oot 4c 


D 
4 
c 
4 
g 
ne 


Day of J Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 





—e Last Hr 4. -10 mins Moon is Fast 

PR] —Tong | Decl | Travel [An] AR] Anos | CA] Tat 
12°8)04'21"| +18°58" | +15°14'| 032°14"| -13°47") 17°56 | 17°56 ¢ 
01°a%35'21"| -19°51"| +01°01"| 221°48"| +08°46"| 28°25 | 28° 25 
02°a215R. | -16°26"] -01°15' | 223°25' | +11°46'| 27°45 | 27° 45 
25°43 19 -21°54'| +01°15'| 226°10'| +04°10'| 04°441 | 04° 41 
04°8217 R | +23°95"| -00°24'| 036°57" | -06°54'|) 25° 49 | 25°49 
03°S352 R. | +20°02') -00°08' | 039°32' | -09°38") 26°08 | 26°08 


11°10 +13°02'| +00°01'| 114°00'| +33°50'| 18°S350 | 18°a<50 
21°52 R. | +21°42'| -00°01'| 049°21'| -02°35'| 08°08 | 08°08 
21°Y§52 R | -21°42'| -O0°01'| 229°21'| +02°35'| 08°08 | 08°08 
17° 49'43"| +22°18'| +00°00' | 052°27"| +00°00'| 12°10 | 12°10 
17°16'15"| -05°02' | +00°00' | 180°00' | +33°28') 12°44 | 12°T 44 
28°V319 -18°45' | +00°00' | 225°32' | +08°06"| 01°41 | 01° 41 





3S 27 


a 
8 
oo 


(8 
o 
||| lec oa ls 
a | 
sasdsaod | be | |@ 





Ze 
0Ad1/0S01 


42459 


e*|_| is 
Fal 
zl | 
a 
>| 
a 
Ha 
= 


XXXIV 


O1° 2 23" [FivedStars S| Sr ff Arabic Parts sO 
3) o ALPHECCA »)] Friends 
ACRUX 4 Goods 
SPICAx* Marriage 
SCHEAT Death 
POLLUX Sudden Advanceme 
ARCTURUS Servants 
ALDEBARAN x** Servants 
Danger or Peril 
Fortune 
Husbandry 


o” 
o° 
a 
oe 
° 
a 
of 
oe 
oe 
o” 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 

Ruler-Ruler || |_Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trp | Term | Face | Det | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Trip 2 +2 
Ruler- Term + 


rh 

rf 

a +7 
D Ruler-Term 

cw 

»)] 

h 

by 


rE 
' 
ath 
1 


+ 


ara} aa > 


Ruler-Face 
Ruler-Face 
Term-Term 
Term-Face 


d 
2 
9 
4 
») 
c 
4 
) 







Lilly 468 
Horary Chart (33) . : 
Mar 23 1647 NS oN ies 
8:12 am LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' OO0*W'10' 


QEFAQoOstr_owmOy 

ot ott ttt to tt Pay 

Rt OEP E Ow 

40 3t st 40 40 40 4040 0) 400) 

ton ot see FY dee fat +0 +0 Fy 
33 

tht OY tet HY st st 40 4K 40 


a 


Day of % Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 


3rd Hour of Da Moon in via combusta 
Last Hr 4 -9 mins Moon is Fast 
Next Hr ©) +52 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt._| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat._| 
O6°m50°55"| -09°18"| +13°44' | 262°16" 23°09 | 23°09 
02°T'32'53"| +01°01"| +00°59'| 114°50" 27°27 | 27°27 
23°28 | -04°23'| +01°53"| 124°40' 06°=32 | 06°T32 
WeT11 | +03°24"| +0114] 10612" 1e"m4g | 18°49 
25°58 = | +23°58'| +00°12"| 04°46" o4°02 | 04° 702 
28°34. | +21°14'| -00°00"| 02°42 O1n26 | 01°26 


15°014 +14°29'| +00°06' | 073°26' 14°9)46 | 14°ax46 
18°41 R | +22°71"| -00°10' | 012°52' 1°19 | 11°19 
18°41 R | -22°71'| -00°10' | 192°52' 11°19 |11°019 
04°10. 37'51"| +21°06"| +00°00' | 054°40' 25°B22 | 26°vj22 
O1°%23'19"} -19°53"| +00°00' | 180°00' 28°37? | 28°37 


03°56 -18°24' | +00°00' | 204°02' 21°04 | 21°04 





© 
¥ 
? 
of 
y& 
h 
Q 
16) 
is 
Mc f 
® 


XXXV 


26° = 03' MOONASPECTS | [Fixed Stars | Orb [Arabic Parts Orb 
Do @ 3708'S ¢ ACULEUS Spirit 
De A; Osa # ALCYONE Faith 


DOA 104A o THUBAN Daughters 
Derk BATA o ALCYONE 8th (Sun on Asc} 
Doe WB F24a # ALCYONE Sons 

Friends 

Friends 

Fortune 


Exalt-Term | Ruler| Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Exalt-Face 
Exalt-Face 
Temm-Face 
Term-Face 


+ 
DOtSMeRY «er OOG 
+ 
+ + 
+ 


PNYNSSHO 







Lilly 470 
Horary Chart (34) * : 
Jun 16 1647 NS oT 
7:57 pm LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' OO0"W'10' 


DEF ADS Hr ywROu|? 
doc 40 fst ted 40) tex ted dee dr” 
at tO +0 +040 Oto 40 tO 
40 Fy ot PY ost 4c te 4 dee Ft 
+ 
QE tie st HOU EO ot 
+ 
Fy toe tet ROY RY St Ie 4H 


BODrA 


Day of Hour of CONSIDERATIONS 
12th Hour of Da 


Last Hr }) -6? mins 
Next Hr 4 +15 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt_| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat__| 
21° 439'36"| -27°79'| +12°30' | 128°43' [+0753 | O24 | 0824 
25°11 16'45"| +23°24' | +00°57"| 306°48' | +01°48'| 04°43 | 04943 
O24? == | +17°32"| +01°01"| 323°93'| -13°42'| 27°13 | 270413 
25°37 | +22°48'| +01°12'| 281°52'| +19°58'| 04°23 | 04°23 
o2m13 | +11°44'| +00°33' | 249°92'| +33°42'| 27147 | 27°47 
O7°S240 | +19°D5'| +00°11'| 269°52'| +24°48'| 22°20 | 22°M.20 





25° 48 +17°22'| +00°0?" | 330°22'| -16°23'| 04°S212 | 04x12 
12°3 44 R, | +22°52') -00°01'| 292°15"| +11°38'|) 17°16 | 17°16 
12°44 R. | -22°52') -00°01') 112°15"| -11°38') 17°16 | 17°16 
22° 708'57"| -23°15'| +00°00' |} 129°21"| -00°00'| OF°V§51 | 07°51 
26°=02'53"| -10°05' | +00°00' | 180°00' | +28°25'| O3°H57 | 03°57 


18°28 +24°53' | +00°00' | 313°28' | -00°33'| 11°32 | 11°32 





XXXVI 


1s 13 [arabic Pats +. ob 
Oss FOMALHAUT =* Nobility & Honor 


O°56' A ALPHECCA 8th (Sun on Asc} 
00's ACRUX Life 
6°35' A RIGEL ** Discord 
6°36' A ALCYONE Discord 
2A SIRIUS#** Danger or Peril 
Fortune 
Land Journeys 


UT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES (PTOLEMY 
Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall | Score | 
Ruler-Trip ho | -- -- +1 
Ruler-Face 
Ruler-Face 


h 
h 
ac 
? 
4 Ruler-Face 
3 
h 
»)] 


= 
+E 


+ 


Exalt-Term 
Exalt-Face 
Trip- Term 


OL 4 40 40 4 Ot tt 






Lilly 471 
Horary Chart (35) . : 
Oct 29 1645 NS Mle 
6:53 pm LMT +0:00:40 

, England 

51°N30' OO0"W'10' 


SEFaorry_owy 
4 ste ot Oto tes Fy FY 40. Fy 
Se a ee ae 
He CY Osta, otto 4 Fy 


Day of &) Hour of g CONSIDERATIONS 


re : Last Hr 2 -69 mins Moon is Slow 
Pang] Decl | Travel [Any] AR] Anes | Can] Ta 
29°2%22'55" +12°58' | 168°55' OOS? | O0°b 37 
O6°Mh43'27" +01°00' | 274°45' 23°17? | 23°17 
25°16 R. -00°40' | 286°55" 043444 | 04°44 
05° #58 +01°14'| 246°40' 24°yj02 | 24°02 
15°M46 +00°42' | 265°49' 14aal4 | 148014 
05°59 R, -00°01' | 040°56' 2401 | 24°40) 





00°0 19 Rk, -00°05' | 102°13' 29°8)41 | 29°ae41 
15°82 43 R, -00°01' | 003°35" 14017? | 14°17 
15°ax43 R, -00°01') 183°35' 14°? | 14°17 
25°T 01'54" +00°00' | 050°22" 04°58 | 04°Y358 
19°2~1 2'35" +00°00' | 180°00' 10°Mh4? | 10°04? 
02°H22 +00°00' | 166°15' 27238 | 27°T38 





Me 
| [rodeerd | | | | 


XXXVI 


10 7 02 Fixed Stars [Orb YfArbicPats | on | 


Understanding 
Mariage 
Marriage 
Treachery 
Imprisonment 
Understanding 
Fortune 


Brethren 


Ruler-Exalt | Pt | Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
Ruler-Exalt 93 +3 
Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler-Trip 
Ruler-Face 
Exalt-Exalt 
Exalt-Trip 
Exalt-Trip 


+ 


+ 
HS PKOVOKr OOS 


3 


FASS 


3 
Nod P40 et ted fH te ted tet 
toc +0 ot 


Lilly 473 

Horary Chart (36) y : 
May 24 1644 NS 10" 1 02 
0:25 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00"W'10' 





DEF AQOrKrYcm Oy 
hot ot tee Fy tO TE et dec tees 
See Oye +O Ado HE PY 47 


Oy > 





Day of J Hour of © CONSIDERATIONS 


7th Hour of Night Moon void of course 
Last Hr 7? -29 mins Moon is Slow 
Next Hr 2 +12 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. _| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
2a 75414" +12°49 | 159°40" oo g0e | 00°06 
03°013'08" +00°58' | 07°04" 26°R47 | 26°47 
03°30 +02°09' | 00°44" 20°30 | 20°%430 
13°22 +01°09' | 327°13" 16°38 | 16°38 


o5°T 40 +00°45' | 067°23 24°20 | 24°20 
14°009 +00°14' | 027°05' 15°8)51 | 15°2<51 


wero +00°06' | 055°51' 12°59 | 12°H59 
13°08 R. -00°11'| 269°25' 16°T52 | 16°52 
13°08 R, -00°11'| 089°25' 16°=52 | 16°52 
13°240'46" +00°00' | 117°35' 16°19 | 16°019 
10° 401'59" +00°00' | 180°00' 19°58 | 19°58 
17°00 +00°00' | 321°40' 13°00 | 13°00 





© 
¥ 
? 
oi 
y& 
h 
Q 
ie) 
As 
Me 
® 


XXXVIil 


12° 751! MOON ASPECTS || [Fixed Stars | Orb fifArabic Parts Orb 


the Father 
Private Enemies 
Treachery 
Imprisonment 
Death 


Fortune 
Brethren 


MUT. RECEPTIONS ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES [PTOLEMY 
Ruler-Exalt |) | Pt| Ruler] Exalt| Trip | Term | Face | Detri | Fall_| Score | 
% | -1 


Ruler-Exalt 
Ruler- Term 
Exalt-Exalt 
Exalt-Face 
Trip- Term 

Trip-Face 

Term-Term 


a 
+ 


+ 


ICS) wKOVOKr ODA 


3 


+ 
FASS 


3 
NS PM tee St I de 
toc +0 ot 


Lilly 473--Adjus 

Horary Chart (37) ° ' 
May 24 1644 NS ie 3 
0:37 am LMT +0:00:40 
, England 

51°N30' O00*W'10' 





SQEFaostry_oWwOy 
hot ot tee Fy tO TD et de 4K 
St 4c) de 40 Fy 40 ot PY 


Oy > 







Day of 3} Hour of O CONSIDERATIONS 
7th Hour of Night 


Last Hr 7 -41 mins 
NextHr 2 +0 mins 


| Pt| Long _| Decl_| Travel [Azi(ON)| Alt. _| Antiscia | CAnt_ | Lat_| 
o0°Wg00'39" +12°49' | 161°28" 29°59 [29°59 
03°0113'37" +00°58" | 009°59" 26°S46 | 26°46 
09°31 +02°09' | 03°35" 20°29 | 20°%429 
13°22 +01°09' | 329°47" 16°38 | 16°38 
os°T'41 +00°45' | 069°55" 24°19 | 24°19 
14°409 +00°14' | 030°00" 15°51 | 15°sx51 


wero +00°06' | 058°32" 12°59 | 12°H59 
13°08 R, -00°11'| 271°46' 16°T52 | 16°52 
13°H08 R, -00°11'| 091°46' 16°=52 | 16°52 
19°s<05'57" +00°00')114°47" 10°54 | 10°b 54 
12° 450'42" +00°00') 180°00' 17°j09 | 17°09 
22°19 +00°00' | 319°08' orm [or Aa 





QFFaDsrrawKkgd 
ee eel 


Oo 
| | ed | | | [@ 


XXXIX 


William Lilly Natal Chart FIRDARIA (Nodal Variation 














Male Chart (38) May 11 1602 0.0 Jan 27 1624 21. May 10 1646 Mar 19 1666 
May 11 1602 NS Aug 231603 1.3 Oct 14.1625 23 Oct 141647 Jan 28 1668 
2:08 am +0:00 Dec51604 26 Jul2 1627 25. Mar 191649 Dec 5 1669 
ah Mar191606 3.9 Mar 19 1629 26. Aug 23 1650 Oct 141671 
ae Jul21607 51 Dec 51630 28, Jan 28 1652 Aug 22 1673 
Thi Oct 141608 64 Aug 22 1632 30. Jul1 1653 Jul1 1675 
Fapecsiaies Jan 261610 7.7 May 10 1634 32 Dec 5 1654 May 10 1677 


Fre Nake May111611 9.0 
Dec 51612 10.6 

Jul21614 12.1 

Jan 27 1616 13.7 

Aug 231617 15.3 

Mar 201619 16.9 

Oct131620 18.4 

May 101622 20.0 


May 111635 33. May 10 1656 
May 101636 34. Jul 1 1657 
May 101637 35. Aug 23 1658 
May 101638 36. Oct 141659 
May 111639 37. Dec 41660 
May 101640 38. Jan 26 1662 
May 101641 39. Mar 19 1663 
May 101644 42. May 10 1664 


Aug 22 1678 
Dec 5 1679 
Mar 19 1681 
Jul 11682 
Oct 14 1683 
Jan 25 1685 
May 10 1686 
Dec 5 1687 


sti ste tO Ad 


WAWYWW PPP Pe PE 
Dw w www en QWrwwwnwnn 
ee ce ee ee ee 
HOO YUP + WOAPY sty 


St Pd 


eo: 
rd 


| Bonatti/Lehman | The Moon 14° 4 49 
}Omar/Bonatti |The Moon 14° 49 
|Prolemy = |The Moon 14° 49 


May111602 0. 
Mar 3 1606 
Oct 26 1607 
Jan 121609 
Aug 13 1612 
May 29 1613 
Oct 14.1615 
Mar 101618 
Jun 26 1621 
Aug 19 1623 
Nov 11 1625 
Sep 21629 
Oct 7 1632 
Apr 22 1637 
Jun 5 1640 
Jun 4 1642 
Sep 18 1646 
Jun 16 1651 
Oct 12 1655 
Jun 8 1662 


8 ods 168%, ad 2 y 13°230R, 
As 03°3¢07" i tee? oft 06"re33" 


2? 19° x09 
© 19859 


$ 
4. 
% 
c 
h 
4 
¢ 
% 
c 
h 
¢ 
¥ 
4 
h 
c 
Es 
4 
g 
c 
hh 


xl 


xli 


